                              PREAMBLE 
                                      
 
 
The  Government  of  the  People¡¯s  Republic  of  China  (¡°China¡±)  and  the  Government  of  the 
Republic of Korea (¡°Korea¡±), hereinafter referred to as ¡°the Parties¡±; 
 
RECOGNISING   their  longstanding friendship and  strong  economic and  trade relationship 
and desiring to strengthen their strategic cooperative partnership; 
 
CONVINCED that a free trade area will create an expanded and stable market for goods and 
services and  a  stable  and  predictable  environment  for  investment,  thus  enhancing  the 
competitiveness of their firms in global markets; 
 
SHARING the belief that a free trade agreement shall produce mutual benefits to each Party 
and contribute to the expansion and development of international trade; 
 
ESTABLISHING clear and mutually advantageous rules governing their trade; 
 
DESIRING  to  raise  living  standards,  promote  economic  growth  and  stability,  create  new 
employment opportunities and improve the general welfare of the Parties by expanding trade 
and investment between the Parties; 
 
MINDFUL that economic development, social development and environmental protection are 
interdependent  and  mutually  reinforcing components of  sustainable development and  that 
closer economic partnership can play an important role in promoting sustainable development; 
and 
 
SEEKING to facilitate and enhance regional economic cooperation and integration; 
 
HAVE AGREED as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
                               CHAPTER 1 
                 INITIAL PROVISIONS AND DEFINITIONS 
                                      
 
                         Section A: Initial Provisions 
 
 
Article 1.1: Establishment of a Free Trade Area 
 
Consistent with Article XXIV of GATT 1994 and Article V of GATS, the Parties hereby 
establish a free trade area. 
 
                                    - 2 - 
 
 
 
Article 1.2: Objectives  
 
The Parties conclude this Agreement, among others, for the purposes of:  
    
       (a)   encouraging expansion and diversification of trade between the Parties;  
        
       (b)   eliminating the barriers to trade in, and facilitating the cross-border 
             movement of, goods and services between the Parties;  
        
       (c)   promoting fair competition in the Parties¡¯ markets;  
        
       (d)   creating new employment opportunities; and 
        
       (e)   creating a framework for furthering bilateral, regional and multilateral 
             cooperation to expand and enhance the benefits of this Agreement. 
 
 
Article 1.3: Relation to Other Agreements 
 
The Parties affirm their existing rights and obligations with respect to each other under the 
WTO Agreement and other existing agreements to which both Parties are party. 
 
 
Article 1.4: Extent of Obligations 
 
The Parties shall ensure that all necessary measures are taken in order to give effect to the 
provisions of this Agreement in their respective territories, including ensuring that their 
respective local governments observe all obligations and commitments under this Agreement. 
 
 
Article 1.5: Territorial Application 
 
1. With regard to China, this Agreement shall apply to the entire customs territory of China, 
including land, internal waters, territorial sea and air space, and any area beyond its territorial 
sea within which it may exercise sovereign rights or jurisdiction in accordance with 
international law and its domestic law; and 
 
2.  With regard to Korea, this Agreement shall apply to the land, maritime, and air space 
over which Korea exercises sovereignty, and those maritime areas, including the seabed and 
subsoil adjacent to and beyond the outer limit of the territorial seas over which it may 
exercise sovereign rights or jurisdiction in accordance with international law and its domestic 
law. 
 
 
                            Section B: Definitions 
 
 
Article 1.6: Definitions 
                                    - 3 - 
 
 
 
For the purposes of this Agreement, unless otherwise specified: 
 
Anti-Dumping Agreement means the Agreement on Implementation of Article VI of the 
General Agreement on Tariff and Trade 1994, which is part of the WTO Agreement; 
 
customs authorities means: 
 
      (a)   for China, the General Administration of Customs of the People¡¯s Republic of 
            China or its successor; and 
      
      (b)   for Korea, the Ministry of Strategy and Finance and the Korea Customs 
            Service, or their respective successors; 
      
customs duties includes any customs or import duty and a charge of any kind imposed in 
connection with the importation of a good, including any form of surtax or surcharge in 
connection with such importation1, but does not include any: 
       
      (a)   charge equivalent to an internal tax imposed consistently with Article III:2 of 
            GATT 1994, in respect of like, directly competitive, or substitutable goods of 
            the Party, or in respect of goods from which the imported good has been 
            manufactured or produced in whole or in part;  
       
      (b)   duty imposed pursuant to a Party¡¯s law consistently with Chapter 7 (Trade 
            Remedies); 
 
      (c)   fee or other charge in connection with importation commensurate with the cost 
            of services rendered;  
       
      (d)   premiums offered or collected on an imported good arising out of any 
            tendering system in respect of the administration of quantitative import 
            restrictions or tariff rate quotas; and 
       
      (e)     duty imposed pursuant to any agricultural safeguard measure2 taken under the 
            Agreement on Agriculture, which is part of the WTO Agreement; 
 
Customs Valuation Agreement means the Agreement on Implementation of Article VII of 
the GATT 1994, which is part of the WTO Agreement; 
 
days means calendar days; 
 
existing means in effect on the date of entry into force of this Agreement; 
 
GATS means the General Agreement on Trade in Services, which is part of the WTO 
Agreement; 
                                                 
1 For greater certainty, customs duty includes an adjustment tariff imposed pursuant to Article 69 of Korea¡¯s Customs Act. 
2 Korea shall not apply such measure to the liberalized products under this Agreement.   For greater certainty, the 
liberalized products means the tariff lines of which base rates are zero or those that are duty-free after phase-out period 
according to its Schedule to Annex 2-A (Reduction or Elimination of Customs Duties). 
                                    - 4 - 
 
 
 
GATT 1994 means the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994, which is part of the 
WTO Agreement; 
 
goods of a Party means domestic products as these are understood in GATT 1994 or such 
goods as the Parties may agree and includes originating goods of that Party; 
 
Import Licensing Agreement means the Agreement on Import Licensing Procedures, which 
is part of the WTO Agreement; 
 
Joint Commission means the Joint Commission established under Article 19.1 (Joint 
Commission);  
 
measure includes any law, regulation, procedure, requirement or practice; 
 
originating means qualifying under the rules of origin set out in Chapter 3 (Rules of Origin 
and Origin Implementation Procedures); 
 
person means a natural person or a juridical person, or any other entity established in 
accordance with domestic law; 
 
Safeguard Agreement means the Agreement on Safeguards, which is part of the WTO 
Agreement; 
 
SCM Agreement means the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures, which is 
part of the WTO Agreement; 
 
SPS Agreement means the Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary 
Measures, which is part of the WTO Agreement; 
 
TBT Agreement means the Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade, which is part of the 
WTO Agreement; 
 
TRIPS Agreement means the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property 
Rights, which is part of the WTO Agreement; 
 
WTO means the World Trade Organization; and 
 
WTO Agreement means the Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World Trade 
Organization, done on April 15, 1994. 
                                      
 
 
 
 
 
 


                                    - 5 - 
 
 
                                CHAPTER 2 
        NATIONAL TREATMENT AND MARKET ACCESS FOR GOODS 
 
 
                        Section A: Common Provisions 
 
 
Article 2.1:  Scope and Coverage 
 
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, this Chapter applies to trade in goods 
between the Parties. 
 
 
Article 2.2:   Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
consumed means 
 
      (a)   actually consumed; or  
       
      (b)   further processed or manufactured so as to result in a substantial change in the 
            value, form, or use of the good or in the production of another good;  
       
distributor means a person of a Party who is responsible for the commercial distribution, 
agency, concession, or representation in the territory of that Party of goods of the other Party; 
 
duty-free means free of customs duty; 
 
goods intended for display or demonstration includes their component parts, ancillary 
apparatus, and accessories; 
 
goods temporarily admitted for sports purposes means sports requisites for use in sports 
contests, demonstrations, or training in the territory of the Party into whose territory such 
goods are admitted; 
 
import licensing means an administrative procedure requiring the submission of an 
application or other documentation (other than that generally required for customs clearance 
purposes) to the relevant administrative body as a prior condition for importation into the 
territory of the importing Party; and 
 
performance requirement means a requirement that: 
 
(a)  a given level or percentage of goods or services be exported; 
 
      (b)  domestic goods or services of the Party granting a waiver of customs duties or 
            an import license be substituted for imported goods; 
       
      (c)  a person benefiting from a waiver of customs duties or an import license 
                                    - 6 - 
 
 
            purchase other goods or services in the territory of the Party granting the 
            waiver of customs duties or the import license, or accord a preference to 
            domestically produced goods;  
       
      (d)  a person benefiting from a waiver of customs duties or an import license 
            produce goods or supply services, in the territory of the Party granting the 
            waiver of customs duties or the import license, with a given level or 
            percentage of domestic content; or 
       
      (e)  relates in any way the volume or value of imports to the volume or value of 
            exports or to the amount of foreign exchange inflows; 
       
but does not include a requirement that an imported good be: 
 
      (f)  subsequently exported; 
       
      (g)  used as a material in the production of another good that is subsequently 
            exported;  
 
      (h)  substituted by an identical or similar good used as a material in the production 
           of another good that is subsequently exported; or 
 
      (i)  substituted by an identical or similar good that is subsequently exported. 
 
 
                        Section B: National Treatment 
 
                                      
Article 2.3: National Treatment  
 
Each Party shall accord national treatment to the goods of the other Party in accordance with 
Article III of GATT 1994, including its interpretative notes.  To this end, Article III of 
GATT 1994 and its interpretative notes are incorporated into and made part of this 
Agreement, mutatis mutandis.  
 
 
              Section C: Reduction or Elimination of Customs Duties 
                                      
                                      
Article 2.4: Reduction or Elimination of Customs Duties 
 
1.   Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, each Party shall progressively reduce 
or eliminate its customs duties on originating goods of the other Party in accordance with its 
Schedule to Annex 2-A. 
 
2.   On the request of either Party, the Parties shall consult to consider possibility of  
accelerating the reduction or elimination of customs duties set out in their Schedules to 
Annex 2-A.  An agreement by the Parties to accelerate the reduction or elimination of a 
customs duty on a good shall supersede any duty rate or staging category determined 
                                    - 7 - 
 
 
pursuant to their Schedules to Annex 2-A for that good when approved by each Party in 
accordance with its applicable legal procedures. 
 
3.   A Party may unilaterally accelerate the reduction or elimination of customs duties set 
out in its Schedule to Annex 2-A at any time if it so wishes.  A Party shall notify the other 
Party through a diplomatic note immediately after completion of the internal procedures 
required for the amendments to enter into force.   Such amendments shall enter into force on 
the date specified in the diplomatic note, or in any event, within 90 days of such notification.  
Any concessions granted by the Party according to the unilateral acceleration set out therein 
shall not be withdrawn. 
      
4.   If at any moment a Party reduces its applied most-favored-nation (hereinafter referred 
to as "MFN") customs duty rate after the entry into force of this Agreement, that duty rate 
shall apply as regards trade covered by this Agreement if and for as long as it is lower than 
the customs duty rate calculated in accordance with its Schedule to Annex 2-A. 
 
 
Article 2.5: Standstill  
 
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, neither Party may increase any existing 
customs duty, or adopt any new customs duty, on an originating good of the other Party.  
This shall not preclude that a Party may:  
 
     (a)     raise a customs duty that was unilaterally reduced other than as provided for 
             in Article 2.4.2 or 2.4.3 to the lower of the levels established either: 
           
             (i)  in its Schedule to Annex 2-A; or  
                 
             (ii)  pursuant to Articles 2.4.2 or 2.4.3;or 
 
     (b)     maintain or increase a customs duty as authorized by the Dispute Settlement 
             Body of the WTO. 
 
 
                          Section D: Special Regimes 
 
 
Article 2.6: Temporary Admission of Goods  
 
1.   Each Party shall grant duty-free temporary admission for the following goods, 
regardless of their origin: 
        
     (a)     professional equipment, such as equipment used for scientific research,   
             pedagogical or medical activities, the press or television and cinematographic 
             purposes, necessary for a person who qualifies for temporary entry pursuant 
             to the laws of the importing Party; 
              
     (b)     goods intended for display or demonstration at exhibitions, fairs, meetings, or 
             similar events; 

                                    - 8 - 
 
 
              
     (c)   commercial samples; and 
              
     (d)   goods admitted for sports purposes. 
 
2.   Each Party shall, on the request of the person concerned and for reasons its customs 
administration considers valid, extend the time limit for temporary admission beyond the 
period initially fixed in accordance with its domestic law. 
          
3.   Neither Party may condition the duty-free temporary admission of a good referred to 
in paragraph 1, other than to require that the good: 
 
      (a)   be used solely by or under the personal supervision of a national or resident of 
            the other Party in the exercise of the business activity, trade, profession, or 
            sport of that person; 
       
      (b)   not be sold or leased while in its territory; 
       
      (c)   be accompanied by the deposit of a bond or security in an amount no greater 
            than the charges that would otherwise be owed on entry or final importation, 
            releasable on exportation of the good; 
       
      (d)   be capable of identification when exported; 
       
      (e)   be exported on the departure of the person referenced in subparagraph (a), or 
            within such other period related to the purpose of the temporary admission as 
            the Party may establish, or within 6 months, unless extended; 
       
      (f)   be admitted in no greater quantity than is reasonable for its intended use; and 
       
      (g)   be otherwise admissible into the Party¡¯s territory under its domestic law. 
       
4.    If any condition that a Party imposes under paragraph 3 has not been fulfilled, the 
Party may apply the customs duty and any other charge that would normally be owed on the 
good plus any other charges or penalties provided for under its law. 
 
5.    Each Party shall permit a good temporarily admitted under this Article to be 
re-exported through a customs port other than that through which it was admitted. 
 
6.    Each Party shall provide that its customs administration or other competent authority 
shall relieve the importer or another person responsible for a good admitted under this Article 
from any liability for failure to re-export the good on presentation of proof to the satisfaction 
of the customs administration of the importing Party that the good has been destroyed by 
reason of force majeure. 
 
 
Article 2.7: Duty-Free Entry of No Commercial Value Articles That Are for Advertising 
Purposes or to be Used as Samples 
 

                                    - 9 - 
 
 
Each Party shall grant duty-free entry to no commercial value articles that are for advertising 
purposes or to be used as samples in accordance with its laws and regulations. 
 
 
                       Section E: Non-Tariff Measures3 
 
 
Article 2.8: Import and Export Restrictions  
 
1.   Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, neither Party may adopt or maintain 
any prohibition or restriction on the importation of any good of the other Party or on the 
exportation of any good destined for the territory of the other Party, except in accordance 
with Article XI of GATT 1994 and its interpretative notes, and to this end, Article XI of 
GATT 1994 and its interpretative notes are incorporated into and made part of this 
Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
2.   Where a Party proposes to adopt an export prohibition or restriction on energy and 
mineral resources in accordance with paragraph 2(a) of Article XI of GATT 1994, the Party 
shall provide notice in writing, as far in advance as practicable, to the other Party of such 
proposed prohibition or restriction and its reasons together with its nature and expected 
duration. 
             
3.   The Parties understand that the GATT 1994 rights and obligations incorporated by 
paragraph 1 prohibit, in any circumstances in which any other form of restriction is 
prohibited, a Party from adopting or maintaining: 
 
     (a)   export and import price requirements, except as permitted in enforcement of 
           countervailing and antidumping duty orders and undertakings; 
            
     (b)   import licensing conditioned on the fulfillment of a performance requirement; 
           or 
 
     (c)   voluntary export restraints inconsistent with Article VI of GATT 1994, as 
           implemented under Article 18 of the SCM Agreement and Article 8.1 of the 
           Anti-Dumping Agreement. 
            
4.   In the event that a Party adopts or maintains a prohibition or restriction on the 
importation from or exportation to a non-Party of a good, no provision of this Agreement 
shall be construed to prevent the Party from: 
 
      (a)   limiting or prohibiting the importation of the good of the non-Party from the 
            territory of the other Party; or 
       
      (b)   requiring as a condition for exporting the good of the Party to the territory of 
            the other Party, that the good not be re-exported to the non-Party, directly or 
            indirectly, without being consumed in the territory of the other Party. 
                                                 
3 Non-tariff measures related to sanitary and phytosanitary measures and technical barriers to trade are addressed in 
Chapters 5 (Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures) and 6 (Technical Barriers to Trade) respectively and therefore they shall 
not be subject to the provisions of this Section.   This shall not affect the implementation of Article 2.15.  
                                   - 10 - 
 
 
       
5.    In the event that a Party adopts or maintains a prohibition or restriction on the 
importation of a good from a non-Party, the Parties, on the request of either Party, shall 
consult with a view to avoiding undue interference with or distortion of pricing, marketing, or 
distribution arrangements in the territory of the other Party. 
 
6.    Neither Party may, as a condition for engaging in importation or for the importation 
of a good, require a person of the other Party to establish or maintain a contractual or other 
relationship with a distributor in its territory. 
 
7.    For greater certainty, paragraph 6 does not prevent a Party from requiring a person 
referred to in that paragraph to designate an agent for the purpose of facilitating 
communications between its regulatory authorities and that person. 
       
       
Article 2.9: Import Licensing 
 
1.   Neither Party may adopt or maintain a measure that is inconsistent with the Import 
Licensing Agreement.4 
      
2.    (a)    Promptly after this Agreement enters into force, each Party shall notify the 
             other Party of its existing import licensing procedures, if any.  The 
             notification shall: 
 
             (i)   include the information specified in Article 5 of the Import Licensing 
                   Agreement; and 
                    
             (ii)  be without prejudice as to whether the import licensing procedure is 
                   consistent with this Agreement. 
              
      (b)   Before applying any new or modified import licensing procedure, a Party shall 
            publish the new procedure or modification on an official government Internet 
            site.  To the extent possible, the Party shall do so at least 30 days before the 
            new procedure or modification takes effect. 
      
3.   Neither Party may apply an import licensing procedure to a good of the other Party 
unless the Party has complied with the requirements of paragraph 2 with respect to that 
procedure. 
 
 
Article 2.10: Administrative Fees and Formalities  
 
1.   Each Party shall ensure that all fees and charges imposed in connection with 
importation and exportation shall be consistent with their obligations under Article VIII:1 of 
GATT 1994 and its interpretative notes, which are hereby incorporated into and made part of 
this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 

                                                 
4 For the purposes of paragraph 1 and for greater certainty, in determining whether a measure is inconsistent with the Import 
Licensing Agreement, the Parties shall apply the definition of ¡°import licensing¡± contained in that Agreement. 
                                   - 11 - 
 
 
 
2.   Each Party shall make available and maintain through the Internet a current list of the 
fees and charges it imposes in connection with importation or exportation.  
      
 
Article 2.11: State Trading Enterprises 
  
1.   The rights and obligations of the Parties with respect to state trading enterprises shall 
be governed by Article XVII of GATT 1994, its interpretative notes, and the Understanding 
on the Interpretation of Article XVII of GATT 1994, which are incorporated into and made 
part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
2.   Where a Party requests information from the other Party on individual cases of state 
trading enterprises, the manner of their operation and the effect of their operations on 
bilateral trade, the requested Party shall have regard to the need to ensure maximum 
transparency possible without prejudice to Article XVII:4(d) of GATT 1994 on confidential 
information. 
 
 
Article 2.12: Trade Related Non-Tariff Measures   
 
1. Each Party shall ensure the transparency of its non-tariff measures affecting trade 
between the Parties and that any such measures are not prepared, adopted or applied with the 
view to or with the effect of creating unnecessary obstacles to trade between the Parties.  
 
2. To the extent possible, each Party should allow a reasonable interval between the 
publication of any such measures and their effective date. 
 
 
Article 2.13: Establishment of Working Group  
 
1. Pursuant to Article 2.16.3(c), the Parties hereby establish a working group under the 
auspices of the Committee on Trade in Goods, comprising relevant and competent officials of 
each Party, to conduct consultations on matters related to non-tariff measures. 
 
2.  The working group shall consider approaches that may better facilitate trade between the 
Parties and present to the Parties the results of its consideration, including any 
recommendation, preferably within 12 months.  The results of the consideration and 
recommendations of the working group shall be submitted to the Committee on Trade in 
Goods for consideration and/or action. 
 
 
Article 2.14: Tariff Rate Quota (TRQ) Administration 
 
1. A Party that has established TRQs as set out in Annex 2-A shall implement and 
administer these TRQs in accordance with Article XIII of GATT 1994 and, for greater 
certainty, its interpretative notes, the Import Licensing Agreement, and any other WTO 
Agreement. 
 
                                   - 12 - 
 
 
2. A Party shall ensure that its TRQ administration measures and implementation are 
consistent, transparent and are not adopted or maintained to create discrimination against the 
other Party. 
 
 
Article 2.15: Designation of Testing Laboratories 
 
Taking into consideration the regulations and requirements of respective legal framework, the 
competent authorities are encouraged to have discussions on the mutual recognition of the 
testing results by designating testing laboratories in the other Party in the fields of foods and 
cosmetics. 
 
 
                       Section F: Institutional Provisions 
 
 
Article 2.16: Committee on Trade in Goods  
 
1.   The Parties hereby establish a Committee on Trade in Goods (hereinafter referred to 
as the ¡°Committee¡±), comprising representatives of each Party. 
 
2.   The Committee shall meet at least once a year to consider matters arising under this 
Chapter, and may meet more frequently as the Parties may agree. 
 
3.   The Committee¡¯s functions shall include, inter alia: 
 
      (a)   promoting trade in goods between the Parties, including through consultations 
            on accelerating reduction or elimination of customs duties under this 
            Agreement and other issues as appropriate; 
       
      (b)   addressing barriers to trade in goods between the Parties, especially those 
            related to the application of non-tariff measures and, if appropriate, referring 
            such matters to the Joint Commission for its consideration; 
       
      (c)   establishing working groups, if necessary, and monitoring the work of the 
            working groups established under the auspices of the Committee; and  
       
     (d)   exchanging information on matters related to subparagraphs (a) through (c) 
           which may, directly or indirectly, affect trade between the Parties with a view 
           to minimizing their negative effects on trade and seeking mutually acceptable 
           alternatives. 


                                   - 13 - 
 
 
                                ANNEX 2-A   
                                      
           REDUCTION OR ELIMINATION OF CUSTOMS DUTIES 
 
        
1. Except as otherwise provided in a Party¡¯s Schedule to this Annex, the following staging 
categories apply to the reduction or elimination of customs duties by each Party pursuant to 
Article 2.4.1:  
           
       (a)   customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in staging 
             category ¡°0¡± in a Party¡¯s Schedule shall be eliminated entirely and such 
             goods shall be free of customs duty on the date this Agreement enters into 
             force;   
              
       (b)   customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in staging 
             category ¡°5¡± in a Party¡¯s Schedule shall be removed in five equal annual 
             stages beginning on the date this Agreement enters into force, and such 
             goods shall be free of customs duty, effective January 1 of year five; 
         
       (c)   customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in staging 
             category ¡°10¡± in a Party¡¯s Schedule shall be removed in 10 equal annual 
             stages beginning on the date this Agreement enters into force, and such 
             goods shall be free of customs duty, effective January 1 of year 10; 
         
       (d)   customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in staging 
             category ¡°10-A¡± in a Party¡¯s Schedule shall remain at base rates during years 
             one through eight. Beginning on January 1 of the year nine, customs duties 
             shall be removed in two equal annual stages, and such goods shall be 
             duty-free, effective January 1 of year 10; 
         
       (e)   customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in staging 
             category ¡°15¡± in a Party¡¯s Schedule shall be removed in 15 equal annual 
             stages beginning on the date this Agreement enters into force, and such 
             goods shall be free of customs duty, effective January 1 of year 15; 
         
       (f)   customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in staging 
             category ¡°20¡± in a Party¡¯s Schedule shall be removed in 20 equal annual 
             stages beginning on the date this Agreement enters into force, and such 
             goods shall be free of customs duty, effective January 1 of year 20; 
         
       (g)   customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in staging 
             category ¡°PR-10¡± in a Party¡¯s Schedule shall be reduced by ten percent of 
             the base rate in five equal annual stages beginning on the date this 
             Agreement enters into force, and such goods shall remain at 90 percent of the 
             base rate, effective January 1 of year five; 
         
       (h)   customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in staging 
             category ¡°PR-20¡± in a Party¡¯s Schedule shall be reduced by 20 percent of the 
             base rate in five equal annual stages beginning on the date this Agreement 
                                   - 14 - 
 
 
             enters into force, and such goods shall remain at 80 percent of the base rate, 
             effective January 1 of year five; 
         
       (i)   customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in staging 
             category ¡°PR-30¡± in a Party¡¯s Schedule shall be reduced by 30 percent of the 
             base rate in five equal annual stages beginning on the date this Agreement 
             enters into force, and such goods shall remain at 70 percent of the base rate, 
             effective January 1 of year five; and 
 
       (j)   customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in staging 
             category ¡°E¡± in a Party¡¯s Schedule shall remain at base rates. 
 
2. The base rate of customs duty and staging category for determining the interim rate of 
customs duty at each stage of reduction for an item are indicated for the item in each Party¡¯s 
Schedule. 
           
3. Interim staged rates shall be rounded down, at least to the nearest tenth of a percentage 
point or, if the rate of duty is expressed in monetary units, at least to the nearest tenth of one 
Chinese Yuan in the case of China and the nearest Korean Won in the case of Korea. 
           
4. For the purposes of this Annex and a Party¡¯s Schedule, year one means the year this 
Agreement enters into force. 
           
5. For the purposes of this Annex and a Party¡¯s Schedule, beginning in year two, each 
annual stage of tariff reduction shall take effect on January 1 of the relevant year. 
 
 


                                   - 15 - 
 
 
                      TARIFF SCHEDULE OF CHINA 
                                      
                             GENERAL NOTES 
 
 
1. Base Rates of Customs Duty. The base rates of duty set out in this Schedule reflect the 
Most-Favored-Nation tariff rates of the  Chinese  customs  duty in effect on January 1, 2012. 
 
2. Staging. In addition  to  the staging  categories  listed in  paragraph 1 of Annex 2-A, this 
Schedule contains staging categories 15-A, PR-8, PR-15, PR-35  and PR-50: 
 
       (a)    customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in staging 
             category¡°15-A¡± shall remain at base rates during years one through 10. 
             Beginning on January 1 of the year 11, customs duties shall be removed in 
             five equal annual stages, and such goods shall be duty-free, effective January 
             1 of year 15; 
 
       (b)    customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in staging 
             category ¡°PR-8¡± shall be reduced by eight percent of the base rate in five 
             equal annual stages beginning on the date this Agreement enters into force, 
             and such goods shall remain at 92 percent of the base rate, effective January 
             1 of year five; 
         
       (c)    customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in staging 
             category ¡°PR-15¡± shall be reduced by 15 percent of the base rate in five 
             equal annual stages beginning on the date this Agreement enters into force, 
             and such goods shall remain at 85 percent of the base rate, effective January 
             1 of year five; 
         
       (d)    customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in staging 
             category ¡°PR-35¡± shall be reduced by 35 percent of the base rate in five 
             equal annual stages beginning on the date this Agreement enters into force, 
             and such goods shall remain at 65 percent of the base rate, effective January 
             1 of year five; and 
         
       (e)    customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in staging 
             category ¡°PR-50¡± shall be reduced by 50 percent of the base rate in five 
             equal annual stages beginning on the date this Agreement enters into force, 
             and such goods shall remain at 50 percent of the base rate, effective January 
             1 of year five. 


                                   - 16 - 
 
 
                      TARIFF SCHEDULE OF KOREA 
                                      
                             GENERAL NOTES 
                                      
 
1. Relation to the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of Korea (HSK).  The provisions of this 
Schedule are generally expressed in terms of the HSK, and the interpretation of the 
provisions of this Schedule, including the product coverage of subheadings of this Schedule, 
shall be governed by the General Notes, Section Notes, and Chapter Notes of the HSK.   To 
the extent that provisions of this Schedule are identical to the corresponding provisions of the 
HSK, the provisions of this Schedule shall have the same meaning as the corresponding 
provisions of the HSK. 
              
2. Base Rates of Customs Duty.   The base rates of duty set out in this Schedule reflect the 
Korean Customs Duty Most-Favored-Nation rates of duty in effect on January 1, 2012. 
              
3. Staging.  In addition to the staging categories listed in paragraph 1 of Annex 2-A, this 
Schedule contains staging categories 20-A, 20-B, PR-1 and PR-130: 
       
       (a)   customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in staging 
             category ¡°20-A¡± shall remain at base rates during years one through 10.  
             Beginning on January 1 of the year 11, customs duties shall be removed in 
             ten equal annual stages, and such goods shall be duty-free, effective January 
             1 of year 20; 
              
       (b)   customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in staging 
             category ¡°20-B¡± shall remain at base rates during years one through 12.  
             Beginning on January 1 of the year 13, customs duties shall be removed in 
             eight equal annual stages, and such goods shall be duty-free, effective 
             January 1 of year 20; 
         
       (c)   customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in staging 
             category ¡°PR-1¡± shall be reduced by one percent of the base rate on the date 
             this Agreement enters into force; and 
         
       (d)   customs duties on originating goods provided for in the items in staging 
             category ¡°PR-130¡± shall be reduced to 130 percent ad valorem in ten equal 
             annual stages beginning on the date this Agreement enters into force, and 
             such goods shall remain at 130 percent ad valorem, effective January 1 of 
             year 10. 


                                   - 17 - 
 
 
                             APPENDIX 2-A-1 
                                      
                                 KOREA 
                                      
 
1.     This Appendix applies to tariff rate quotas (TRQs) provided for in this Agreement 
and sets out modifications to the Harmonized Schedule of Korea (HSK) that reflect the TRQs 
that Korea shall apply to certain originating goods under this Agreement.  In particular, 
originating goods of China included under this Appendix shall be subject to the rates of duty 
as set out in this Appendix in lieu of the rates of duty specified in Chapters 1-97 of the HSK.  
Notwithstanding any other provision of the HSK, originating goods of China in the quantities 
described in this Appendix shall be permitted entry into the territory of Korea as provided in 
this Appendix.  Furthermore, any quantity of originating goods imported from China under 
a TRQ provided for in this Appendix shall not be counted toward the in-quota amount of any 
TRQ provided for such goods elsewhere in the HSK. 
 
2. (a)  The aggregate quantity of originating goods of China that shall be permitted to enter 
free of customs duty is specified below. 
 
                                                            Annual Quantity  
No      HSK 2012                    Product 
                                                              (Metric Tons) 
 1     0301999020                  Puffer (live)                  140 
 2     0301999070                 Loaches (live)                 3,200 
 3     0302899040         Angler (Monkfish) (fresh/chilled)       17 
 4     0303440000       Bigeye tunas (Thunnus obesus) (frozen)    270 
 5     0303899060            Angler (Monkfish) (frozen)          1,900 
 6     0307511000         Poulp squid (live, fresh, or chilled)  6,100 
 7     0307591020               Poulp squid (other)             19,400 
 8     0307714000         Baby clams (live, fresh, or chilled)  15,800 
 9     0307791030               Baby clams (frozen)               330 
10     0307793020          Baby clams (salted or in brine)        290 
11     0713329000          Small red (adzuki) beans(other)       3,000 
12     1107100000               Malt (not roasted)               5,000 
13     1108191000          Other starches (of sweet potato)      5,000 
14     1201903000          Soya beans (for bean sprouts)?        3,000 
15     1201909000               Soya beans (other)?              7,000 
16     1207400000                Sesamum seeds                  24,000 
                                                 
? Note: TRQs for HSK 1201903000 and 1201909000 should be limited to soya beans for 
human consumption, identity-preserved.  
   
     (1)     Identity-preserved soya beans means a shipment of soya beans containing not 
             less than 95 percent of any single variety of soya bean and not more than one 
             percent of foreign material.  
      
     (2)     Identity preserved soya beans may not be shipped in bulk, but shall be 
             shipped in bags or containers. 
 
                                   - 18 - 
 
 
17     1605542091                Seasoned squid                   980 
18     1605542099        Squid (other, prepared or preserved)    1,300 
19     1605592090        Top shell (other, prepared/preserved)     7 
20     1605639000        Jellyfish (other, prepared/preserved)     4 
                       Vegetable materials and vegetable waste, 
21     2308009000                                               38,000 
                       vegetable residues and by-products (other)  
 
      (b) Customs duties on goods entered in aggregate quantities in excess of the 
      quantities listed in subparagraph (a) shall be treated in accordance with staging 
      category ¡°E¡± as described in paragraph 1(j) of Annex 2-A. 
 
3.     Over the course of each year, the administering authority of a Party shall publish, in 
a timely fashion on its designated publicly available Internet site, administration procedures, 
utilization rates, and remaining available quantities for each of the TRQs.  
 
4.     Each Party shall notify the other Party of any new or modified administration of a 
TRQ established in this Appendix prior to its application.  On written request of a Party, the 
Parties shall consult regarding a Party¡¯s administration of its TRQs at the next meeting of the 
Committee on Trade in Goods to arrive at a mutually satisfactory agreement on 
administration.  The Parties shall consider prevailing supply and demand conditions in the 
consultations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                   - 19 - 
 
 
                                CHAPTER 3 
     RULES OF ORIGIN AND ORIGIN IMPLEMENTATION PROCEDURES 
 
 
                          Section A: Rules of Origin 
                                      
                                      
Article 3.1: Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter:   
 
aquaculture means the farming of aquatic organisms, including fish, mollusks, crustaceans, 
other aquatic invertebrates and aquatic plants, from seedstock such as eggs, fry, fingerlings, 
and larvae, by intervention in the rearing or growth processes to enhance production, such as 
regular stocking, feeding, or protection from predators; 
 
authorized body means any body designated under domestic laws and regulations of the 
exporting Party to issue a Certificate of Origin; 
 
CIF means the value of the imported good inclusive of the cost of insurance and freight up to 
the port or place of entry in the country of importation.  The valuation shall be made in 
accordance with the Customs Valuation Agreement; 
 
FOB means the value of the good free on board, regardless of the mode of transportation,  
inclusive of the cost of transport to the port or site of final shipment abroad.  The valuation 
shall be made in accordance with the Customs Valuation Agreement; 
 
fungible materials means materials which are interchangeable for commercial purposes, 
whose properties are essentially identical, and between which it is impractical to differentiate 
by a mere visual examination; 
 
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles means the recognized accounting standards or 
consensus or substantial authoritative support given in a Party with respect to the recording of 
revenues, expenses, costs, assets and liabilities, the disclosure of information and the 
preparation of financial statements.  Those standards may encompass broad guidelines of 
general applications as well as detailed standards, practices and procedures; 
 
good means any merchandise, product, article, or material;  
 
Harmonized System (HS) means the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding 
System, including its General Rules of Interpretation, Section Notes, and Chapter Notes; 
 
material means any ingredient, part, component, subassembly and/or good that were 
physically incorporated into another good or were subject to the production of another good; 
 
neutral elements means a good used in the production, testing or inspection of another good 
but not physically incorporated into the good; 
 
non-originating goods or non-originating materials means goods or materials that do not 
                                   - 20 - 
 
 
qualify as originating under this Chapter, and includes goods or materials of undetermined 
origin; 
 
originating goods or originating materials means goods or materials which qualify as 
originating in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter; 
 
packing materials and containers for shipment means goods used to protect a good during 
its transportation other than containers or packaging materials used for retail sale; 
 
producer means a person who engages in the production of a good in the territory of a Party; 
 
production means any kind of working or processing, including growing, raising, mining, 
harvesting, fishing, aquaculture, farming, trapping, hunting, capturing, gathering, collecting, 
breeding, extracting, manufacturing, or assembling a good.  
 
 
Article 3.2: Originating Goods 
 
Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, a good shall be considered as originating in a 
Party where: 
               
       (a)       the good is wholly obtained or produced entirely in a Party as specified 
              in Article 3.4; 
           
       (b)       the good is produced entirely in a Party, exclusively from originating 
              materials; or 
           
       (c)       the good is produced entirely in a Party using non-originating materials 
              and conforms to Annex 3-A; 
 
and the good meets the other applicable provisions of this Chapter. 
 
 
Article 3.3: Treatment of Certain Goods 
 
1.     Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 3.2, goods listed in Annex 3-B which have 
undergone working or processing on materials exported from a Party, and subsequently 
re-imported to that Party for export to the other Party, in an area outside the territories of the 
Parties5 (hereinafter referred to as ¡°Outward Processing Zone¡±), shall be considered as 
originating, provided that: 
 
       (a)       total value of non-originating materials shall not exceed 40 percent of 
              the FOB price of the final goods for which originating status is claimed; and 
               
       (b)       the value of originating materials exported from the Party concerned 

                                                 
5 For the purposes of this paragraph, the Parties agree that the area within which the good is processed under this Article 
shall be limited to the existing area of the industrial complex located and operated in the Korean Peninsula prior to the 
signing of this Agreement. 
                                   - 21 - 
 
 
                 shall not be less than 60 percent of the total value of materials used in the 
                 processing of those goods. 
                
2.      The Parties shall establish a Committee on Outward Processing Zones under the 
auspices of the Joint Commission to perform the following functions: 
         
        (a)          monitor the implementation of paragraph 1 of this Article; 
             
        (b)          report to the Joint Commission on its activities and provide 
                 recommendations to the Joint Commission as necessary; 
 
        (c)          review and designate the expansion of the existing Outward Processing 
                 Zone and the additional Outward Processing Zones6; and 
 
        (d)      discuss other matters specifically mandated by the Joint Commission. 
         
3.      For greater certainty, except as otherwise provided in this Article, the relevant 
Articles in this Chapter shall be applied mutatis mutandis to the goods to which paragraph 1 
of this Article applies. 
   
   
Article 3.4: Goods Wholly Obtained or Produced           
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
For the purpose of subparagraph (a) of Article 3.2, the following goods shall be considered as 
wholly obtained or produced entirely in a Party:  
 
        (a)          live animals born and raised in a Party; 
             
        (b)          goods obtained from live animals referred to in subparagraph (a) above; 
 
        (c)          plants and plant products grown, and harvested, picked or gathered in a 
                 Party; 
 
        (d)          goods obtained from hunting, trapping, fishing, aquaculture, gathering 
                 or capturing conducted within the land territory, the internal waters or 
                 within the territorial sea of the Party;  
 
        (e)          minerals and other natural resources not included in subparagraphs (a) 
                 through (d) above, extracted or taken from the soil, waters, seabed or 
                 subsoil of the Party; 
 
        (f)          goods taken from the waters, seabed or subsoil outside the territorial 
                 sea of a Party, provided that the Party has rights to exploit such waters, 
                 seabed or subsoil;  
             
                                                 
6 For the purposes of this subparagraph, Outward Processing Zones shall refer to industrial zones in the Korean Peninsula.  
The relevant authorities of the Parties shall discuss and agree on the relevant rules and procedures for the additionally 
designated Outward Processing Zones and the expansion of the existing Outward Processing Zones. 
                                            - 22 - 
 
 
      (g)        goods of sea fishing and other marine products taken from the waters, 
              seabed or subsoil outside the territorial sea of a Party by vessels registered 
              or recorded with a Party and flying the flag of that Party; 
           
      (h)        goods produced or processed on board factory ships registered or 
              recorded with a Party and flying the flag of that Party, exclusively from 
              goods referred to in subparagraph (g) above;  
           
      (i)        scrap and waste derived from manufacturing or processing operations 
              in a Party, which are fit only for the recovery of raw materials or which are 
              to be utilized as raw material for the production of another good; or used 
              goods consumed and collected in a Party provided that such goods are fit 
              only for the recovery of raw materials; and 
           
      (j)        goods obtained or produced in a Party exclusively from goods referred 
              to in subparagraphs (a) through (i) above. 
 
 
Article 3.5: Regional Value Content  
 
1.     For the purposes of the Regional Value Content (hereinafter referred to as ¡°RVC¡±) 
requirement provided in Annex 3-A, the RVC shall be calculated as follows: 
   
    RVC          FOB ¨C VNM 
                                 ¡Á   100  
    =               FOB 
 
Where: 
 
RVC is the regional value content, expressed as a percentage; and 
 
VNM is the value of the non-originating materials. 
 
2.     VNM shall be determined according to the following circumstances: 
 
      (a)        in case of the imported non-originating materials, VNM shall be the 
              CIF value of the materials at the time of importation; and 
       
      (b)        in case of the non-originating materials obtained in a Party, VNM shall 
              be the earliest ascertainable price paid or payable for the non-originating 
              materials used in the production of the goods in that Party.  The value of 
              such non-originating materials shall not include freight, insurance, packing 
              costs and any other costs incurred in transporting the material from the 
              supplier¡¯s warehouse to the producer¡¯s location. 
 
3.     If a product which has acquired originating status in a Party is used as material in the 
manufacture of another product in that Party, no account shall be taken of the non-originating 
components of that material in the determination of the originating status of the latter 
product. 
 
                                   - 23 - 
 
 
 
Article 3.6: Accumulation 
 
Where originating goods or materials of a Party are incorporated into a good in the other 
Party, the goods or materials so incorporated shall be regarded to be originating in the other 
Party. 
 
 
Article 3.7: Minimal Operations or Processes 
 
1.     The following operations or processes which contribute minimally to the essential 
characteristics of the goods, either by themselves or in combination, do not confer origin 
whether or not the goods satisfy the product specific rules of origin as specified in Annex 
3-A: 
 
        (a)      operations to ensure the preservation of goods in good condition during 
               transport and storage; 
           
        (b)      simple assembly of parts of articles to constitute a complete article or 
               disassembly of products into parts; 
           
        (c)      change of packaging, breaking-up and assembly of package; 
           
        (d)   washing, cleaning; removal of dust, oxide, oil, paint or other coverings; 
           
        (e)   ironing or pressing of textiles; 
           
        (f)   simple painting and polishing operations; 
           
        (g)   husking, partial or total bleaching, polishing, and glazing of cereals and 
           rice; 
           
        (h)      operations to color or flavor sugar or form sugar lumps; partial or total 
               milling of crystal sugar; 
        
        (i)   peeling, stoning and shelling of fruits, nuts and vegetables; 
           
        (j)   sharpening, simple grinding or simple cutting; 
           
        (k)      sifting, screening, sorting, classifying, grading or matching (including 
               the making-up of sets of articles), slitting, bending, coiling or uncoiling; 
           
        (l)      simple placing in bottles, cans, flasks, bags, cases or boxes, fixing on 
               cards or boards and all other simple packaging operations; 
           
        (m)      affixing or printing marks, labels, logos and other like distinguishing 
               signs on products or their packaging; 
           
        (n)      simple mixing of products, whether or not of different kinds; mixing of 
                                   - 24 - 
 
 
               sugar with any material; 
           
        (o)   testing or calibrations; 
           
        (p)      mere dilution with water or another substance that does not materially 
               alter the characteristics of the goods; 
   
        (q)   drying, salting (or keeping in brine), refrigeration or freezing; 
           
        (r)   slaughter of animals; or  
           
        (s)      a combination of two or more operations specified in subparagraphs (a) 
               through (r). 
 
2.     All operations carried out in a Party on a good shall be considered together when 
determining whether the working or processing undergone by that good is to be regarded as 
minimal operations or processes within the meaning of paragraph 1. 
 
3.     The Parties may agree on other operation as minimal operations or processes. 
 
 
Article 3.8: De Minimis 
 
A good that does not satisfy a change in tariff classification requirement provided in Annex 
3-A shall nevertheless be an originating good if: 
           
        (a)    (i)    for a good, other than that provided for in Chapters 15 through 24 
                      and Chapters 50 through 63 of the HS Code, the value of all 
                      non-originating materials used in the production of the good that 
                      did not undergo the required change in tariff classification does 
                      not exceed 10 per cent of the FOB value of the good; 
           
              (ii)     for a good provided for in Chapters 15 through 24 of the HS 
                       Code, the value of all non-originating materials used in the 
                       production of the good that did not undergo the required change 
                       in tariff classification does not exceed 10 per cent of the FOB 
                       value of the good, provided that the non-originating material is 
                       provided for in a different subheading from that of the good for 
                       which the origin is being determined under this subparagraph; or 
           
              (iii)    for a good provided for in Chapter 50 through 63 of the HS 
                       Code, the weight of all non-originating materials used in its 
                       production that did not undergo the required change in tariff 
                       classification does not exceed 10 per cent of the total weight of 
                       the good, or the value of all non-originating materials used in the 
                       production of the good that did not undergo the required change 
                       in tariff classification does not exceed 10 per cent of the FOB 
                       value of the good; and 
           
                                   - 25 - 
 
 
        (b)    the good meets all other applicable criteria of this Chapter. 
 
 
Article 3.9: Fungible Materials  
 
1.     In determining whether a material used in the production is originating, any fungible 
materials shall be distinguished by: 
 
       (a)    physically separating each fungible material; or 
         
       (b)       using any inventory management method recognized in the 
              Generally Accepted Accounting Principles of a Party in which the 
              production is performed. 
         
2.     The inventory management method selected under paragraph 1 for a particular 
fungible material shall continue to be used for that material throughout the fiscal year. 
 
 
Article 3.10: Neutral Elements 
 
In determining whether a good is originating, the origin of the following neutral elements 
shall be disregarded:  
 
      (a)     fuel, energy, catalysts and solvents;   
         
      (b)     equipment, devices and supplies used for testing or inspecting the 
          goods; 
         
      (c)     gloves, glasses, footwear, clothing, safety equipment and supplies; 
         
      (d)     tools, dies and moulds; 
         
      (e)        spare parts and materials used in the maintenance of equipment 
              and buildings; 
         
      (f)        lubricants, greases, compounding materials and other materials 
              used in production or used to operate equipment and buildings; and 
         

                                   - 26 - 
 
 
      (g)        any other goods that are not incorporated into the good but 
              whose use in the production of the good can reasonably be 
              demonstrated to be a part of that production. 
 
 
Article 3.11: Sets  
 
1.     Sets, as defined in General Rule 3 for the Interpretation of the Harmonized System, 
shall be regarded as originating when all the components of the sets are originating.  
 
2.     Nevertheless, when a set is composed of originating and non-originating goods, the 
set as a whole shall be regarded as originating, provided that the value of the non-originating 
goods as determined in accordance with Article 3.5, does not exceed 15 percent of the FOB 
value of the set. 
 
 
Article 3.12: Packing Materials and Containers 
 
1.     Packing materials and containers used for the transport of goods shall not be taken 
into account in determining the origin of the goods. 
 
2.     Packaging materials and containers in which a good is packaged for retail sale shall, 
if classified with the good, be disregarded in determining whether all the non-originating 
materials used in the production of the good undergo the applicable change in tariff 
classification in the product specific rules of origin.  However, if the good is subject to a 
regional value content requirement, the value of the packaging materials and containers used 
for retail sale shall be taken into account as originating materials or non-originating materials 
as the case may be when determining the origin of the good.  
 
 
Article 3.13: Accessories, Spare Parts and Tools 
 
        1.       Accessories, spare parts, or tools delivered and presented with 
        the good at the time of importation shall be disregarded when determining 
        the origin of the good, provided that:  
         
      (a)        the accessories, spare parts, or tools are classified with and not 
              invoiced separately from the good; and 
         
      (b)        the quantities and values of the said accessories, spare parts or 
              tools are customary for the good. 
         

                                   - 27 - 
 
 
        2.    Where the goods are subject to a regional value content requirement, 
        the value of the accessories, spare parts or tools described in paragraph 1 
        shall be taken into account as originating materials or non-originating 
        materials, as the case may be, in calculating the regional value content of 
        the goods. 
 
 
Article 3.14: Direct Transport 
 
1.     The originating goods of the Parties claiming for preferential tariff treatment shall be 
directly transported between the Parties. 
 
2.     Goods whose transport involves transit through one or more Non-Parties, with or 
without trans-shipment or temporary storage in such Non-Parties, shall be considered directly 
transported between the Parties, provided that: 
 
       (a)       the transit entry of goods is justified for geographical reason or by 
              consideration related exclusively to transport requirements;  
           
       (b)    the goods do not enter into trade or consumption in the non-Party; and 
           
       (c)       the goods do not undergo any other operation in the non-Party other 
              than unloading, splitting up of loads for transport reasons, and reloading, or 
              any operation necessary to preserve it in good condition. 
 
In the case where the goods are temporarily stored in a Non-Party as provided in this 
paragraph, the goods shall remain under control of the customs authorities in that Non-Party 
during its stay.  The stay of the goods in that Non-Party shall not exceed three months from 
the date of their entry.  In the case of force majeure, the stay of the goods in that Non-Party 
may exceed three months but shall not exceed six months from the date of their entry.  
 
3.     For the purpose of paragraph 2 of this Article, the following documents shall be 
submitted to the customs authority of the importing Party upon import declaration of the 
goods: 
 
       (a)       in the case of transit or trans-shipment, transport documents such as the 
              airway bill, the bill of lading, or the multimodal or combined transport 
              documents covering the whole transporting route from the exporting Party 
              to the importing Party; and 
           
       (b)       in the case of storage or devanning of the containers, transport 
              documents such as the airway bill, the bill of lading, or the multimodal or 
              combined transport documents covering the whole transporting route from 
              the exporting Party to the importing Party, and supporting documents 
              provided by the customs authority of a Non-Party.  The importing customs 
              authority may designate other competent agencies in such Non-Party to 
              issue such supporting documents and inform the exporting customs 
                                   - 28 - 
 
 
              authority of such designation. 
             
             
                  Section B: Origin Implementation Procedures 
 
 
Article 3.15: Certificate of Origin  
 
1.     A Certificate of Origin as set out in Annex 3-C shall be issued by the authorized 
bodies of the exporting Party, on application by the exporter, producer, or under the 
exporter¡¯s responsibility, by his authorized representative, in accordance with the domestic 
legislation, subject to the condition that the goods concerned fulfill the requirements of this 
Chapter. 
 
2.     A Certificate of Origin shall: 
 
       (a)    contain a unique certificate number;  
           
       (b)       state the basis on which the goods are deemed to qualify as originating 
              for the purposes of this Chapter; 
           
       (c)       contain security features, such as signatures and stamps, and the stamps 
              shall conform to those notified by the exporting Party to the importing 
              Party; 
           
       (d)    be completed in English; and 
           
       (e)       be in printed format, which is understood as a Certificate of Origin 
              either manually or electronically signed and stamped by the authorized 
              body.  It is required that only one original hard copy of the Certificate of 
              Origin be printed. 
 
3.     A Certificate of Origin shall be issued before or at the time of shipment or within 
seven working days after shipment of the goods in question.  It shall be valid for one year 
from the date of issuance in the exporting Party.     
 
4.      If a Certificate of Origin has not been issued before or at the time of shipment or 
within seven working days after shipment due to force majeure, involuntary errors, omissions 
or other valid causes, a Certificate of Origin may be issued retrospectively but no longer than 
one year from the date of shipment, bearing the words ¡°ISSUED RETROACTIVELY¡±.  
 
5.     For cases of theft, loss or accidental destruction of a Certificate of Origin, the 
exporter or producer may make a written request to the authorized bodies of the exporting 
Party for issuing a certified copy, provided that the original copy previously issued has been 
verified not to be used.  The certified copy shall bear the words ¡°CERTIFIED TRUE COPY 
of the original Certificate of Origin number ___ dated ___¡±.  
 
 
                                   - 29 - 
 
 
Article 3.16: Authorized Body 
 
1.     Each Party shall inform the customs authority of the other Party of the name of each 
authorized body, as well as relevant contact details, and shall provide details of any specimen 
of stamps for relevant forms and documents used by each authorized body, prior to the 
issuance of any certificates by that body.  
 
2.     Any change in the information provided above shall be promptly notified to the 
customs authority of the other Party and enter into force seven working days after the date of 
notification or on a later date indicated in such notification. 
 
 
Article 3.17: Claims for Preferential Tariff Treatment 
 
1.     Unless otherwise provided in this Chapter, the importer claiming preferential tariff 
treatment shall: 
 
       (a)       make a written statement in the customs declaration, indicating that the 
              good qualifies as an originating good;  
           
       (b)       possess a valid Certificate of Origin, at the time the import customs 
              declaration referred to in subparagraph (a) is made; and 
           
       (c)       submit the original Certificate of Origin and other documentary 
              evidences related to the importation of the goods in accordance with their 
              respective domestic laws and regulations7. 
 
2.     The importer shall promptly make a corrected declaration and pay any duties owed, 
where the importer has reason to believe that a Certificate of Origin on which a declaration 
was based contains information that is not correct.  
 
 
Article 3.18: Post-Importation Preferential Tariff Treatment  
 
1.     Each Party shall provide that, where an originating good was imported, importer 
may, no later than one year after the date of importation, apply for refund of any excess 
duties, deposit, or guarantee paid as a result of the good not having been accorded 
preferential tariff treatment, on presentation to the customs authority of the importing Party 
of:  
 
      (a)        a valid Certificate of Origin demonstrating that the good was 
              originating at the time of importation; and 
           
      (b)        such other documentation relating to the importation of the good as the 
                                                 
7 If all the information of a Certificate of Origin is exchanged between the customs authority of each Party through Article 
3.27 (Electronic Origin Data Exchange System), the customs authority of each Party may not require the importer to submit 
the Certificate of Origin on importation.   Nevertheless, the customs authority of each Party reserves the right to require the 
importer to submit the Certificate of Origin, when it deems necessary.   This footnote shall be without prejudice to any other 
requirements under this Chapter. 
                                   - 30 - 
 
 
              importing Party may require. 
 
2.     Without prejudice to paragraph 1, each Party may require, in accordance with its 
respective laws and regulations, that the importer shall formally declare to the customs 
authority upon importation as a precondition for claiming preferential tariff treatment, failing 
which no preferential tariff treatment is to be granted.  
 
 
Article 3.19: Exemption of Obligation of Submitting Certificate of Origin 
 
1.     For the purpose of granting preferential tariff treatment under this Chapter, a Party 
shall waive the requirements for the presentation of a Certificate of Origin for consignment of 
originating products of a customs value not exceeding 700 US dollars or its equivalent 
amount in the Party's currency; or 
 
2.     Waivers provided for in paragraph 1 shall not be applicable when it is established by 
the customs authorities of the importing Party that the importation forms part of a series of 
importations that may reasonably be considered to have been undertaken or arranged for the 
purpose of avoiding the submission of a Certificate of Origin. 
 
 
Article 3.20: Record Keeping Requirements  
 
1.     Each Party shall require its producers or exporters to retain origin documents for 
three years from the date the Certificate of Origin was issued for the producers or exporters.   
These documents include records of, but not limited to the following:  
 
       (a)    the purchase of, cost of, value of, and payment for, the good; 
           
       (b)       the purchase of, cost of, value of, and payment for all materials, 
              including neutral elements, used in the production of the good; 
           
       (c)    the production of the good in the form in which it was exported; and  
           
       (d)       such other documentation as is required by the laws and regulations of 
              each Party. 
           
2.     Each Party shall require its importer to retain all records related to the importation in 
accordance with its laws and regulations. 
 
3.     Each Party shall require that its authorized bodies retain copies of Certificates of 
Origin and any other documentary evidence sufficient to substantiate the origin of the goods 
for three years. 
 
4.     An exporter, producer, importer or authorized bodies may choose to maintain the 
records specified in paragraphs 1 through 3 in any medium that allows for prompt retrieval, 
including, but not limited to, digital, electronic, optical, magnetic, or written form in 
accordance with its domestic legislation. 
 
                                   - 31 - 
 
 
 
Article 3.21: Minor Discrepancies and Errors 
 
Without prejudice to Article 3.23, where the minor discrepancies and errors are ascertained 
by the customs authority of the importing Party such as illegibility, defect on its face, and 
discrepancy between the Certificate of Origin and the written declaration to the customs, the 
importer shall be granted a period of not less than five working days, but not exceeding 30 
working days, from the date of request by the customs authority to provide a copy of the 
corrected Certificate of Origin. 
 
 
Article 3.22: Non-Party Invoice 
 
The importing Party shall not reject a Certificate of Origin only for the reason that the invoice 
was issued in a non-Party, provided that the requirements under this Chapter are complied 
with. 
 
 
Article 3.23: Verification of Origin 
 
1.     For the purpose of determining whether a good imported into one Party from the 
other Party qualifies as an originating good, the customs authority of the importing Party may 
conduct a verification process in sequence by means of: 
   
       (a)       requests for information relating to the origin of imported good from 
              the importer; 
   
       (b)       requests to the customs authority of the exporting Party to verify the 
              origin of the goods; 
   
       (c)       requests to the customs authority of the exporting Party for a 
              verification visit to exporter or producer in the exporting Party; or 
   
       (d)       such other procedures as agreed upon by the customs authorities of the 
              Parties. 
 
2.     For the purposes of subparagraph 1(b), 
   
       (a)       the customs authority of the importing Party shall provide to the 
              customs authority of the exporting Party with: 
           
              (i)    the reasons why such verification is requested; 
           
              (ii)   the Certificate of Origin of the goods, or a copy thereof; and 
           
              (iii)  any other information or documents as may be necessary for such 
                     request; 
     
       (b)       the customs authority of the exporting Party shall provide the customs 
                                   - 32 - 
 
 
              authority of the importing Party with verification results, to the extent 
              possible including facts and findings, and relevant supporting documents 
              made available by the exporter or producer, within six months from the date 
              of the receipt of the request; and 
   
       (c)       the customs authority of the importing Party shall notify the results of 
              the determination as to whether the good in question is originating or not to 
              the customs authority of the exporting Party within three months from the 
              date of the receipt of the results of the verification from the customs 
              authority of the exporting Party. 
 
3.     For the purposes of subparagraph 1(c), if the customs authority of the importing 
Party is not satisfied with the verification results provided by the customs authority of the 
exporting Party, the customs authority of the importing Party may, at the consent of the 
customs authority of the exporting Party, conduct verification visits to the premises of the 
exporter or producer in the exporting Party, under the escort of the customs authority of the 
exporting Party. 
  
       (a)       Before conducting a verification visit, the customs authority of the 
              importing Party shall, at least 30 days prior to the date of verification visit, 
              deliver a written request to the customs authority of the exporting Party of 
              its intention to conduct such verification visit.  The customs authority of 
              the exporting Party should decide whether to accept such request and reply 
              to the customs authority of the importing Party within 30 days from the date 
              of receipt of the request.  
   
       (b)       When the customs authority of the exporting Party agrees to the request 
              of verification visit but needs to postpone the proposed verification visit, 
              the customs authority of the importing Party shall be notified together with 
              the approval of the verification visit.  Such postponement shall not exceed 
              60 days from the proposed date of the verification visit. 
   
       (c)       In case the customs authority of the exporting Party agrees to such 
              request, the customs authority of the importing Party can conduct 
              verification visit to exporter or producer, in the company of customs 
              officials of the exporting Party. 
   
       (d)       Prior to initiating the verification visit, matters concerning the 
              verification shall be mutually discussed between customs authorities of both 
              Parties.  In the course of verification visit, any request from the customs 
              authority of the importing Party shall be made through the customs 
              authority of the exporting Party. 
   
       (e)       The customs authority of the importing Party shall notify the customs 
              authority of the exporting Party of the determination on whether or not the 
              good is originating and the result of verification visit, to the extent possible 
              including legal basis and findings of fact in a written form. 
   
       (f)       The exporter or producer may submit comments or documents 
                                   - 33 - 
 
 
              regarding eligibility of the good for preferential tariff treatment to the 
              customs authority of the exporting Party in a written form. 
   
       (g)       The customs authority of the importing Party shall notify the final 
              determination on whether or not the good is originating to the customs 
              authority of the exporting Party and the importer in a written form within 30 
              days from the receipt of the comments or information provided from the 
              customs authority of the exporting Party under subparagraph 3(f). 
   
       (h)       The verification visit process, from the actual visit to the final 
              determination under subparagraph 3(g), shall be carried out within a 
              maximum period of six months. 
   
       (i)       Details for the verification visit may be decided jointly by the customs 
              authorities of both Parties in advance. 
 
4.     The customs authority of the importing Party may suspend provision of preferential 
tariff treatment while awaiting the results of the verification.  However, it may release the 
good to the importer subject to any administrative measures deemed necessary, provided that 
they are not held to be subject to import prohibition or restriction and there is no suspicion of 
fraud. 
 
5.     The customs authority of the importing Party may deny preferential tariff treatment, 
in case where: 
   
       (a)       the importer fails to respond to the customs authority of the importing 
              Party within one month from the date of receipt of the request under 
              subparagraph 1(a);  
   
       (b)       the customs authority of the exporting Party fails to provide verification 
              results to the customs authority of the importing Party within six months 
              under subparagraph 2(b);  
   
       (c)       the verification results provided to the customs authority of the 
              importing Party or the results of verification visit do not contain 
              information necessary to confirm the authenticity of the origin status of the 
              good in question; 
   
       (d)       the customs authority of the exporting Party denies the request of 
              verification visit from the customs authority of the importing Party; or 
   
       (e)       the customs authority of the exporting Party fails to respond to the 
              request of verification visit from the customs authority of the importing 
              Party within 30 days under subparagraph 3(a). 
 
6.     Communications under this Article shall be in the English language. 
 
 
Article 3.24: Confidentiality 
                                   - 34 - 
 
  
 
 1.     A Party shall maintain the confidentiality of the information provided by the 
 other Party, pursuant to this Chapter, and protect it from disclosure that could prejudice 
 the competitive position of the person providing the information.  Any violation of the 
 confidentiality shall be treated in accordance with the legislation of each Party. 
 
2.      The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall not be disclosed without the 
specific permission of the person or government providing such information. 
  
  
 Article 3.25: Denial of Preferential Tariff Treatment 
  
 A Party may deny preferential tariff treatment to a good when: 
  
        (a)    the good does not meet the requirements of this Chapter; 
            
        (b)       the importer, exporter or producer fails to comply with the relevant 
               requirements of this Chapter; 
            
        (c)    the Certificate of Origin does not meet the requirements of this Chapter; or 
            
        (d)    in a case according to paragraph 5 of Article 3.23. 
  
  
 Article 3.26: Transitional Provision for Goods in Transit or Storage 
  
 The provision of this Chapter may be applied to goods which on the date of entry into force 
 of this Agreement, are either in transit, in the Parties, or in temporary storage in customs 
 warehouses, subject to the submission to the customs authorities of the importing Party, 
 within three months of the date of entry into force of this Agreement, of a Certificate of 
 origin made out retrospectively together with the documents showing that the goods have 
 been transported directly in accordance with Article 3.14. 
  
  
 Article 3.27: Electronic Origin Data Exchange System 
  
 According to ¡°Arrangement between the General Administration of Customs of the People¡¯s 
 Republic of China and the Korea Customs Service of the Republic of Korea on Strategic 
 Cooperation¡±, both Parties endeavor to develop an Electronic Origin Data Exchange System 
 before the implementation of this Agreement to ensure the effective and efficient 
 implementation of this Chapter in a manner jointly determined by the Parties. 
  
  
 Article 3.28: Sub-Committee on Rules of Origin 
  
 1.     The Parties hereby establish a Sub-Committee on Rules of Origin (hereinafter 
 referred to as the ¡°Sub-Committee¡±) comprising the customs authorities of the Parties, which 
 shall report to the Committee on Customs as defined in Article 19.4 (Committees and Other 
                                    - 35 - 
  
 
Bodies). 
 
2.     The customs authorities of each Party may request consultations on matters arising 
from the implementation of this Chapter.  The customs authority requested shall confirm the 
receipt of the request within 10 days and reply to the request within 60 days.  For this 
purpose, contact points should be designated by each customs authority.  
 
3.     The Sub-Committee shall be convened at least once a year or at other times as the 
Parties may agree.  
 
4.     The functions of the Sub-Committee shall include: 
    
       (a)       keeping Annex 3-A updated on the basis of the transposition of the 
              Harmonized System; 
           
       (b)       ensuring the effective, uniform and consistent administration of this 
              Chapter, and enhancing the cooperation in this regard; 
           
       (c)       addressing any technical issues related to the implementation of this 
              Chapter and Annex 3-A, such as change in tariff classification, regional 
              value content calculation, etc.; and  
           
       (d)       meeting to review Articles 3.4 and 3.5 and documentary evidence of 
              origin four years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 
 


                                   - 36 - 
 
 
                                ANNEX 3-A 
                  PRODUCT SPECIFIC RULES OF ORIGIN 
                                      
                                      
                     Part I ¨C General Interpretative Notes 
                                      
                                      
1.     The product specific rules in this Annex are structured on the basis of the 
Harmonized System 2012.  In the event of any inconsistency between this description and 
the description set out in the legal text of the Harmonized System established by the World 
Customs Organization, the description set out in the latter shall prevail.  
 
2.     The specific rule, or specific set of rules, that applies to a particular subheading 
(six-digit code) is set out immediately adjacent to the subheading. 
    
3.     When a subheading is subject to alternative specific rules of origin (e.g. CTH or 
RVC (40)), the rule will be considered to be met if one of the alternatives is satisfied. 
 
4.     When a subheading is subject to combination rules of origin (e.g. CTH and RVC 
(40)), the rule will be considered to be met if all the rules are satisfied. 
             
5.     Where a specific rule of origin is defined using the criterion of a change in tariff 
classification, each of the non-originating materials used in the production of the good shall 
be required to undergo the applicable change in tariff classification.  A requirement of a 
change in tariff classification shall apply only to non-originating materials. 
  
6.     Where a specific rule of origin is defined using the criterion of a change in tariff 
classification, and the rule is written to exclude tariff provisions at the level of a chapter, 
heading or subheading of the Harmonized System, each Party shall construe the rule of origin 
to require that materials classified in those excluded provisions be originating for the good to 
qualify as originating. 
 
7.     For the purposes of this Annex: 
 
        subheading means the first six-digit code under the nomenclature of the 
        Harmonized System; 
     
        heading means the first four-digit code under the nomenclature of the Harmonized 
        System; and 
     
        chapter means the first two-digit code under the nomenclature of the Harmonized 
        System. 
     
8.     For the purposes of column 5 of this Annex: 
 
        CC means that all non-originating materials used in the production of the good 
        have undergone a change in tariff classification at the first two-digit level; 
     
        CTH means that all non-originating materials used in the production of the good 
                                   - 37 - 
 
              
have undergone a change in tariff classification at the first four-digit level; 
                  
CTSH means that all non-originating materials used in the production of the good 
have undergone a change in tariff classification at the first six-digit level; 
                  
WO means that the good must be wholly obtained or produced entirely in a Party 
within the meaning of Article 3.4; and 
                  
RVC (X) means that the good must have a regional value content of not less than X 
percent as calculated under Article 3.5. 
 
 
           Part ¢ò ¨C Product Specific Rules of Origin 
                              
                  


                           - 38 - 
              
 
                                ANNEX 3-B 
                             LIST OF GOODS 
                                      
                                      
1.     Each Party shall apply Article 3.3 to goods listed in this Annex, which comprise 
three hundred ten in HS six-digit. 
 
2.     Both Parties may agree to amend the list of goods in this Annex annually.  
 
230690, 321310, 321390, 340700, 350610, 391740, 391990, 392010, 392190, 392310, 
392329, 392350, 392390, 392610, 392640, 392690, 401699, 420212, 420219, 420222, 
420229, 420232, 420291, 420292, 420299, 420310, 420321, 420329, 430230, 430310, 
441239, 482390*, 490300, 490900, 500400, 520839, 521039, 540110, 550932, 550961, 
550969, 551519, 560311, 560410, 560741, 560750, 560811, 580421, 581092, 610130, 
610230, 610310, 610331, 610342, 610343, 610433, 610442, 610452, 610453, 610461, 
610462, 610463, 610469, 610510, 610520, 610610, 610620, 610711, 610712, 610722, 
610791, 610811, 610819, 610821, 610822, 610831, 610832, 610891, 610892, 610910, 
610990, 611011, 611020, 611030, 611120, 611130, 611211, 611212, 611521, 611594, 
611595, 611596, 611599, 611710, 611790, 620111, 620112, 620113, 620191, 620192, 
620193, 620211, 620212, 620213, 620219, 620291, 620292, 620293, 620311, 620312, 
620319, 620331, 620332, 620333, 620339, 620341, 620342, 620343, 620349, 620412, 
620413, 620419, 620431, 620432, 620433, 620439, 620441, 620442, 620443, 620444, 
620449, 620451, 620452, 620453, 620459, 620461, 620462, 620463, 620469, 620520, 
620530, 620590, 620620, 620630, 620640, 620690, 620711, 620719, 620791, 620799, 
620811, 620822, 620891, 620892, 620899, 620920, 621040, 621111, 621112, 621132, 
621133, 621139, 621142, 621143, 621210, 621220, 621290, 621320, 621430, 621440, 
621600, 621790, 630130, 630140, 630231, 630391, 630492, 630493, 630532, 630533, 
630539, 630612, 630710, 630790, 640291, 640299, 640340, 640359, 640391, 640399, 
640419, 640610, 640620, 640690, 650500, 680530, 681280, 691200, 691490, 701400, 
701590, 701919, 711311, 720720, 730890, 732290, 732393, 732599, 732690, 761699, 
821300, 821520, 830140, 830890, 831000, 840390, 841231, 841330, 841391, 841480, 
841490, 841510, 841590, 841899, 842091, 842121, 842123, 842131, 842139*, 842199, 
842240, 843120, 843141, 844319, 844399*, 846694, 847330, 847989, 848079, 848490, 
850110, 850300*, 850410, 850431, 850440, 850490, 850511, 850519, 850790, 851290, 
851610*, 851631, 851632, 851660, 851690, 851770, 852910, 852990*, 853190 853340, 
853400, 853590, 853620, 853669, 853690, 853890, 853931*, 853939*, 854140, 854232, 
854370, 854390, 854430, 854442, 854470, 854720, 854890, 870829*, 870894*, 870899, 
871410, 871680, 880400, 900190, 900211*, 900219, 900290, 901720, 902121, 903190, 
910211, 911120, 911320, 940190*, 940330, 940490, 940510, 940540, 940560, 940592, 
940599, 950300, 950510, 950669, 960810, 960820, 960910, 960990, 961511, 961900* 
 
* For tariff lines at the six-digit level marked with asterisk, this Annex applies only to tariff 
lines at the eight-digit level that are subject to tariff elimination, which means staging 
categories of ¡°0, 5, 10, 15 and 20¡± in China¡¯s Tariff Schedule, under this Agreement. 


                                   - 39 - 
 
  
                                 ANNEX 3-C 
                          CERTIFICATE OF ORIGIN 
                                       
                                       
                                 ORIGINAL 
                                       
  
1. Exporter¡¯s name and address,   
country:                         Certificate No.: 
                                                       
                                                       
2. Producer¡¯s name and address,           CERTIFICATE OF ORIGIN 
country:                                  Form for China-Korea FTA 
                                                       
                                            Issued in ____________ 
3. Consignee¡¯s name and address,            (see Overleaf Instruction) 
country: 
 
4. Means of transport and route (as 5. Remarks: 
far as known): 
 
Departure Date: 
 
Vessel/Flight/Train/Vehicle No.: 
 
Port of loading: 
 
Port of discharge: 
6. Item  7. Marks    8. Number   9. HS     10.      11. Gross     12. Number 
number   and         and kind of code      Origin   weight,       and date of 
(Max     Numbers on  packages;   (Six-digit criterion quantity    invoice  
                     description of 
20)      packages    goods       code)              (Quantity 
                                                    Unit) or other 
                                                    measures 
                                                    (liters, m3, 
                                                    etc.)  
                                                                   
                                                     
          
          
          
          
          
          
          


                                    - 40 - 
  
  
13. Declaration by the exporter:    14. Certification: 
                                     
The undersigned hereby declares that the On the basis of control carried out, it is hereby certified 
above details and statement are correct, that the information herein is correct and that the goods 
that all the goods were produced in described comply with the origin requirements specified 
                                    in the China-Korea FTA. 
  
                                     
             (Country) 
                                     
and that they comply with the origin 
                                     
requirements specified in the FTA for the 
                                     
goods exported to  
                                     
 
                                     
         (Importing country) 
                                     
  
                                    Place and date, signature and stamp of 
Place and date, signature of authorized 
                                    authorized body 
signatory 


                                    - 41 - 
  
 
                             Overleaf Instruction 
Certificate No.: Serial number of Certificate of Origin assigned by the authorized body. 
Box 1:  State the full legal name and address (including country) of the exporter in either China or 
        Korea. 
Box 2:  State the full legal name and address (including country) of the producer.  If goods from 
        more than one producer are included in the certificate, list the additional producers, including 
        their full legal name and address (including country).  If the exporter or the producer wishes 
        to maintain this information as confidential, it is acceptable to state ¡°AVAILABLE UPON 
        REQUEST.¡±  If the producer and the exporter are the same, please complete field with 
        ¡°SAME.¡± 
Box 3:  State the full legal name and address (including country) of the consignee resident in either 
        China or Korea. 
Box 4:  Complete the means of transport and route and specify the departure date, transport vehicle 
        No., port of loading, and port of discharge. 
Box 5:      In case where a good is invoiced by a non-Party operator, the full legal name, country of 
        the non-Party operator shall be indicated in this box.  In case of issuance of certificates 
        retroactively, should bear the words ¡°ISSUED RETROACTIVELY¡±, and in case of a 
        certified true copy, should bear the words ¡°CERTIFIED TRUE COPY of the original 
        Certificate of Origin number ___ dated ___¡±. 
Box 6:  State the item number, and the number of items should not exceed 20. 
Box 7:      State the shipping marks and numbers on packages, when such marks and numbers exist, 
        if the shipping marks are images or symbols, other than letter or numerical number, shall 
        state ¡°IMAGE OR SYMBOL (I/S)¡±, otherwise shall state ¡°NO MARKS AND NUMBERS 
        (N/M)¡± 
Box 8:  The number and kind of packages shall be specified.  Provide a full description of each 
        good.  The description should be sufficiently detailed to enable the goods to be identified by 
        the Customs Officers examining them and relate them to the invoice description and to the 
        HS description of the good.  If the goods are not packed, state ¡°IN BULK¡±. 
Box 9:  For each good described in Box 8, identify the HS tariff classification to six-digit. 
Box 10:  The exporter must indicate in Box 10 the origin criteria on the basis of which he claims that 
        the goods qualify for preferential tariff treatment, in the manner shown in the following table: 
 
      Origin Criteria                                 Insert in Box 10 
The good is wholly obtained or produced entirely in a Party, as set out 
and defined in Article 3.4 (Goods Wholly Obtained or Produced) or WO 
required so in Annex 3- A (Product Specific Rules of Origin). 
The good is produced entirely in a Party, exclusively from materials 
whose origin conforms to Chapter 3 (Rules of Origin and Origin WP 
Implementation Procedures). 
The good is produced in a Party, using non-originating materials that 
conform to a change in tariff classification, a regional value content, a 
                                                PSR 
process requirement or other requirements specified in Annex 3-A 
(Product Specific Rules of Origin). 
The good is subject to Article 3.3 (Treatment of Certain goods) OP 
 
Box 11: Gross weight in Kilos should be shown here.  Other units of measurement e.g. volume or 
        number of items which would indicate exact quantities may be used when customary. 
Box 12:  Invoice number and date of invoice should be shown here.  In case where a good is 
         invoiced by a non-Party operator and the number and date of the commercial invoice is 
                                   - 42 - 
 
 
         unknown, the number and date of the original commercial invoice, issued in the exporting 
         Party, shall be indicated in this box.  
Box 13:   This box shall be completed, signed and, dated by the exporter. 
Box 14:  This box shall be completed, signed, dated, and stamped by the authorized person of the 
        authorized body. 
 
 
Note: The instructions hereon are only used for the purposes of reference to complete the Certificate of Origin, 
and thus do not have to be reproduced or printed in the overleaf page.  The instruction hereon can be printed or 
reproduced in the official language of a Party. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                   - 43 - 
 
 
                               CHAPTER 4 
           CUSTOMS PROCEDURES AND TRADE FACILITATION 
                                      
 
Article 4.1: Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
    
customs law means the statutory and regulatory provisions relating to the importation, 
exportation, movement or storage of goods, the administration and enforcement of which are 
specifically charged to the customs authorities, and any regulations made by customs 
authorities, under their statutory powers; 
 
customs procedures means the treatment applied by each customs authorities to goods and 
means of transport that are subject to customs law; and 
 
means of transport means various types of vessels, vehicles, aircraft and pack-animals 
which enter or leave the territory of a Party carrying persons, goods or articles. 
 
 
Article 4.2: Scope and Objectives 
 
1.     This Chapter shall apply, in accordance with the Parties¡¯ respective international 
obligations and domestic customs law, to customs procedures applied to goods traded 
between the Parties and to the movement of means of transport between the Parties. 
 
2.     The objectives of this Chapter are to: 
 
       (a)       simplify and harmonize customs procedures of the Parties; 
      
       (b)       facilitate trade between the Parties; and 
      
       (c)       promote cooperation between the customs authorities, within the 
              scope of this Chapter. 
                                      
                                      
Article 4.3: Facilitation 
 
1.     Each Party shall ensure that its customs procedures and practices are predictable, 
consistent, and transparent to facilitate trade. 
 
2.     Customs procedures of each Party shall, where possible and to the extent permitted 
by its respective customs law, conform with the trade-related instruments of the World 
Customs Organization (WCO) to which that Party is a contracting party, including those of 
the International Convention on the Simplification and Harmonization of Customs 
Procedures, as amended, known as the Revised Kyoto Convention. 
 
                                   - 44 - 
 
 
3.     The customs authorities shall facilitate the clearance, including release of goods in 
administering their procedures. 
 
4.     Each Party shall endeavor to provide a focal point, electronic or otherwise, through 
which its traders may submit all required regulatory information in order to obtain clearance, 
including release of goods. 
 
 
Article 4.4: Consistency 
 
Each Party shall ensure, to the extent possible, consistent implementation of its customs laws 
and regulations nationwide, and endeavour to deter inconsistent matters that may arise in the 
implementation process of the laws and regulations among its regional customs offices by 
establishing and taking proper measures.  
                                      
                                      
Article 4.5: Transparency 
 
1.     Each Party shall ensure that its customs and other trade-related laws, regulations, 
general administrative procedures and other requirements, including fees and charges, are 
readily available to all interested parties, via an officially designated medium including 
official website.  Each customs authority shall publish all customs laws and any 
administrative procedures it applies or enforces, via an officially designated medium 
including official website. 
 
2.     Each customs authority shall designate or maintain one or more enquiry points to 
deal with inquiries from interested persons from either Party on customs matters arising from 
the implementation of this Agreement, and make available on the official website information 
concerning the procedures for making such inquiries. 
       
3.     To the extent possible, each customs authority shall publish in advance any new or 
amended regulations of general application governing customs matters that it proposes to 
adopt and shall provide interested persons with the opportunity to comment before adopting 
them.  
 
4.     Each customs authority shall provide the other customs authority with timely notice 
of any significant modification of customs laws or procedures governing the movement of 
goods and means of transport that is likely to substantially affect the operation of this 
Chapter. 
 
 
Article 4.6: Customs Valuation 
 
The Parties shall determine the customs value of goods traded between them in accordance 
with the provisions of Article VII of GATT 1994 and the Customs Valuation Agreement. 
                                      
                                      
Article 4.7: Tariff Classification 
 
                                   - 45 - 
 
 
The Parties shall apply the International Convention on the Harmonized Commodity 
Description and Coding System to goods traded between them. 
                                      
                                      
Article 4.8: Customs Cooperation 
 
1.     The Parties affirm their commitment to facilitate the legitimate movement of goods 
and shall exchange expertise on measures to improve customs techniques and procedures, 
and on computerized systems. 
 
2.     To the extent permitted by their domestic laws, the customs authorities shall assist 
each other, in relation to: 
 
       (a)       the implementation and operation of this Chapter; and 
    
       (b)       such other issues as the Parties mutually determine. 
                                      
                                      
Article 4.9: Review and Appeal 
    
1.     Each Party shall, in accordance with its domestic laws and regulations, provide that 
the importer, exporter or any other person affected by its determinations, have access to: 
 
       (a)       a level of administrative review of determinations by its customs 
              authorities  independent  of  the  official  or  office  responsible  for  the 
              determinations under review; and 
    
       (b)       judicial review of the administrative determinations subject to its 
              laws and regulations. 
    
2.     A producer or exporter may provide, on the request of the reviewing authority, 
information directly to the Party conducting the administrative review, and may request such 
Party to treat that information as confidential in accordance with the rules applicable in that 
Party.  This information shall be provided in accordance with the rules determined by the 
Parties. 
                                      
 
Article 4.10: Advance Rulings 
 
1.     The customs authority of each Party shall issue written advance rulings prior to the 
importation of a good into its territory on the written request of an importer, an exporter, or 
any other applicant in the territory of that Party8, on the basis of the facts and circumstances 
provided by the requester, including a detailed description of the information required to 
process a request for an advance ruling.  The advance ruling may be issued on the following 
                                                 
8 For China, the applicant for an advance ruling must be registered with China customs. 
                                   - 46 - 
 
 
matters: 
 
       (a)       tariff classification;  
    
       (b)       origin of a good in accordance with this Agreement; and  
    
       (c)       such other matters as the Parties may agree. 
 
2.     The customs authority shall issue an advance ruling within 90 days after a request, 
provided that the requester has submitted all information required under the domestic laws,   
regulations and rules.  The advance ruling shall be in force from its date of issuance, 
provided that the facts or circumstances on which the ruling is based remain unchanged. 
 
3.     The advance rulings that are into force may be annulled, amended or revoked: 
                                                                  
       (a)       where  the  facts  or  circumstances  prove  that  the  information  on 
              which  the advance  ruling  is based  is false  or inaccurate.  In  these 
              cases, the customs authority may apply appropriate measures to the 
              requester,  including  civil,  criminal  and  administrative  actions, 
              penalties or other sanctions in accordance with its domestic laws;  
    
       (b)       where the customs authorities deem appropriate to apply different 
              criteria due to the obvious error made by customs authorities on the 
              same facts  and circumstances  of  the  original  advance  rulings.  In 
              this case, the amendment or revocation shall be applied from the date 
              of the change; or 
    
       (c)       when the administrative decisions are affected due to changes in 
              the laws, regulations and rules that served as basis.  In these cases, 
              the advance rulings shall automatically cease to be in force from the 
              date of publication of those changes. 
 
In the cases mentioned in subparagraph (c), the customs authority shall make available to 
interested persons the information reviewed, with sufficient time prior to the date on which 
the amendments enter into force, so they can take them into account, with the exception of 
the cases where it is impossible to publish in advance. 
 
4.     Each Party shall publish its advance rulings subject to any confidentiality 
requirements in its laws, regulations and rules. 
 

                                   - 47 - 
 
 
5.     A Party may decline to issue an advance ruling if the facts or circumstances forming 
the basis of the advance ruling are the subject of administrative or judicial review. 
                                      
                                      
Article 4.11: Penalties 
 
Each Party shall adopt or maintain measures that allow for the imposition of administrative 
penalties and, where appropriate, criminal sanctions for violations of its customs laws and 
regulations, including those governing tariff classification, customs valuation, country of 
origin, and claims for preferential tariff treatment under this Agreement.  
                                      
                                      
Article 4.12: Use of Automated Systems 
 
The customs authorities shall apply information technology to support customs operations, 
where it is cost-effective and efficient, particularly in the paperless trading context taking into 
account developments in this area within the WCO. 
                                      
                                      
Article 4.13: Risk Management 
                                      
1.     The customs authorities shall focus measures of control on high-risk goods and 
facilitate the clearance of low-risk goods in administering customs procedures. 
 
2.     The Parties shall design and apply risk management in a manner as to avoid arbitrary 
or unjustifiable discrimination or disguised restrictions on international trade. 
                                      
                                      
Article 4.14: Release of Goods 
 
1.     Each Party shall adopt and apply simplified customs procedures for the efficient 
release of goods in order to facilitate trade between the Parties.  For greater certainty, this 
paragraph shall not require a Party to release goods where its requirements for release have 
not been met. 
 
2.     Pursuant to paragraph 1, each Party shall adopt or maintain procedures that: 
 

       (a)       provide  for  advance  electronic  submission  and  processing  of 
              information  before  the  physical  arrival  of  goods  subject  to  the 
              satisfaction  of  certain  conditions  or  requirements,  to  enable  the 
              release of goods on arrival to the extent possible; 
    
       (b)       may  allow  importers  to  obtain  the  release  of  goods  prior  to 
              meeting all import requirements of that Party if the importer provides 

                                   - 48 - 
 
 
              sufficient  and  effective  guarantees  and  where  it  is  decided  that 
              neither  further  examination,  physical  inspection  nor  any  other 
              submission is required;  
    
       (c)       provide for the release of goods within a period no greater than 
              that  required to  ensure  compliance  with  its  customs  and  other 
              trade-related laws and formalities and to the extent possible, within 
              48 hours of the goods¡¯ arrival; and 
    
       (d)       allow goods, other than prohibited, controlled or regulated, to be 
              released  at  the  place  of  customs supervision, for  free  circulation, 
              without temporary transfer to warehouses or other facilities. 
 
 
Article 4.15: Express Shipments 
          

1.     Each Party shall adopt or maintain separate and expedited customs procedures for 
express shipments while maintaining appropriate customs control and selection. 
 
2.     These procedures shall: 
 
       (a)       allow  submission  of  a  single  manifest  covering  all  goods 
              contained  in  an  express  shipment,  through,  if  possible,  electronic 
              means; 
    
       (b)       to the extent possible, provide for certain goods to be cleared with 
              a minimum of documentation; and 
    
       (c)       apply without regard to an express shipment¡¯s weight or customs 
              value,  unless  otherwise  regulated  by  its  domestic  laws,  regulations 
              and rules. 
                                      
                                      
Article 4.16: Post Clearance Audit 
                                      
Each Party shall provide traders with the opportunity to benefit from the application of 
efficient post clearance audits.   The application of post clearance audits shall not impose 
unwarranted or unjustified requirements or burdens on traders. 
 
                                   - 49 - 
 
  
                                       
 Article 4.17: Confidentiality 
  
1.      A  Party  shall  maintain  the  confidentiality  of  the  information  provided  by  the 
other Party pursuant to this Chapter and protect it from disclosure that could prejudice the 
competitive  position  of  the  person  providing  the  information.  Any  violation  of  the 
confidentiality shall be treated in accordance with the legislation of each Party. 
 
2.      The  information  referred  to in paragraph  1  shall  not  be  disclosed  without  the 
specific permission of the person or government providing such information. 
                                       
                                       
 Article 4.18: Consultation 
  
 1.     The customs authorities of each Party may request consultations on any matter 
 arising from the operation or implementation of this Chapter in cases where there are 
 reasonable grounds or truth provided by the requesting Party.  Such consultations shall be 
 conducted through the relevant contact points in confirmation of the receipt of request within 
 10 working days from the date of receipt by the requested Party and shall take place within 
 60 days of the request, unless the customs authorities of the Parties mutually determine 
 otherwise. 
  
 2.     In the event that such consultations fail to resolve any such matter, the requesting 
 Party may refer the matter to the Committee on Customs referred to in Article 4.19 for 
 consideration. 
  
 3.     Each customs authority shall designate one or more contact points for the purposes 
 of this Chapter and provide details of such contact points to the other Party.  Customs 
 authorities of the Parties shall notify each other promptly of any amendments to the details of 
 their contact points. 
                                       
                                       
 Article 4.19: Committee on Customs 
  
 1.     With a view to the effective implementation and operation of this Chapter and  
 Chapter 3 (Rules of Origin and Origin Implementation Procedures), a Committee on Customs 
 (hereinafter referred to as the ¡°Committee¡±), consisting of a Sub-Committee on Customs 
 Procedures and Trade Facilitation (CPTF) and a Sub-Committee on Rules of Origin (ROO), 
 is hereby established, under the Joint Commission. 
  
 2.     The function of the Sub-Committee on CPTF shall be as follows: 
  
        (a)       to ensure  the  proper  function  of  this  Chapter  and  resolve  all 
               issues arising from its application; 
     
        (b)       to review the interpretation and implementation of this Chapter as 
               well as the revision of this Chapter, as appropriate; 

                                    - 50 - 
  
 
    
       (c)       to identify  areas  related  to  this  Chapter  to  be  improved  for 
              facilitating trade between the Parties; and 
    
       (d)       to report to the Committee. 
 
3.     The Sub-Committee on CPTF shall consist of representatives from customs 
authorities of the Parties.  The Sub-committee shall meet at such venues and times as agreed 
by the Parties. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                   - 51 - 
 
 
                               CHAPTER 5 
               SANITARY AND PHYTOSANITARY MEASURES 
 
 
Article 5.1: Objectives 
 
The objectives of this Chapter are to: 
 
      (a)     minimize the negative effects of sanitary and phytosanitary (hereinafter 
           referred to as ¡°SPS¡±) measures on trade between the Parties while protecting 
           human, animal or plant life or health in the Parties¡¯ territories; 
       
      (b)  enhance transparency in and mutual understanding of the application of each 
           Party¡¯s SPS measures; 
       
      (c)  strengthen cooperation and communication among the competent authorities 
           of the Parties which are responsible for matters covered by this Chapter; and 
       
      (d)  enhance implementation of the SPS Agreement. 
 
 
Article 5.2: Scope and Definitions 
 
1.   This Chapter shall apply to all SPS measures of a Party that may, directly or indirectly, 
affect trade between the Parties. 
 
2.   For the purposes of this Chapter, the definitions in Annex A to the SPS Agreement 
shall apply. 
 
 
Article 5.3: Reaffirmation of the SPS Agreement 
 
Except as otherwise provided for in this Chapter, the SPS Agreement shall apply between the 
Parties and is hereby incorporated into and made part of this Chapter. 
 
 
 
Article 5.4: Technical Cooperation 
 
1.   The Parties agree to explore the opportunity for technical cooperation in SPS areas, 
with a view to enhancing the mutual understanding of the regulatory systems of the Parties 
and minimizing the negative effects on bilateral trade. 
 
2.   The Parties shall give due consideration to cooperation in relation to SPS issues.  
Such cooperation, which shall be on mutually agreed terms and conditions, may include, but 
is not limited to: 
 
     (a)      furthering exchange of experience and cooperation in the development and 
           application of domestic SPS measures as well as international standards; 
                                   - 52 - 
 
 
       
     (b)   strengthening cooperation with respect to, inter alia, risk analysis 
           methodology, disease/pest control methods, laboratory testing techniques, and 
           exchange of information on domestic regulations; 
       
     (c)   enhancing cooperation and exchange of experience between the WTO SPS 
           Enquiry Points of the Parties; 
       
     (d)   developing exchange programs for relevant officials of competent authorities, 
           with the objectives of building capacity and confidence of the Parties 
           regarding animal disease and plant pest management; and 
       
     (e)   carrying out joint research and sharing the result of such research in areas, 
           such as: 
       
             (i)  animal and plant disease/pest surveillance; 
                 
             (ii)  animal and plant disease/pest prevention and control; 
 
             (iii)  detection methods for pathogenic microorganisms in food; and 
 
             (iv)    surveillance and control of harmful substances and agro-chemical 
                 and veterinary medicine residues and other food safety issues. 
       
       
Article 5.5: Committee on the SPS Measures 
 
1.   The Parties hereby agree to establish a Committee on the SPS Measures (hereinafter 
referred to as the ¡°Committee¡±) comprising representatives of each Party¡¯s competent 
authorities of SPS matters. 
    
2.   The objectives of the Committee shall be to enhance each Party¡¯s implementation of 
the SPS Agreement, to protect human, animal, or plant life or health, to enhance cooperation 
and consultation on SPS matters, and to minimize the negative effects on trade between the 
Parties. 
    
3.   Recognizing that the resolution of SPS matters must rely on science and risk-based 
assessment and is best achieved through bilateral technical cooperation and consultation, the 
Committee shall seek to enhance present or future relations between the Parties¡¯ competent 
authorities of SPS matters.  For these purposes, the Committee shall: 
 
       (a)    recognize that scientific risk analysis shall be conducted and evaluated by 
           the relevant regulatory agencies of each Party; 
       
       (b)    enhance mutual understanding of each Party¡¯s SPS measures and the 
           regulatory processes that relate to those measures; 
       
       (c)    consult on matters related to the development or application of SPS 
           measures that affect, or may affect, trade between the Parties; 
                                   - 53 - 
 
 
       
       (d)    communicate timely, through the contact points of the Parties, the 
           significant, sustained or recurring non-compliance with SPS requirements; 
       
       (e)    consider, if necessary, upon request of a Party, establishing technical 
           consultations on the basis of terms and conditions to be agreed by the 
           Committee when one Party considers that an SPS measure of the other Party is 
           likely to be applied, or has been applied in a manner which would constitute a 
           means of arbitrary or unjustifiable discrimination or disguised restriction, with 
           a view to, as appropriate, seeking to address SPS matters of mutual interest to 
           the Parties.  Such consultations shall take place within a reasonable period of 
           time from the date of the request; 
       
       (f)    coordinate on issues, positions, and agenda for meetings of the WTO SPS 
           Committee established under the SPS Agreement, the Codex Alimentarius 
           Commission (CAC), the World Organization for Animal Health (OIE), the 
           relevant international and regional organizations operating within the 
           framework of the International Plant Protection Convention (IPPC), and other 
           international and regional fora on food safety and on human, animal, or plant 
           life or health; 
       
       (g)    promote coordination of technical cooperation activities in relation to 
           development, implementation, and application of SPS measures; and 
       
       (h)    improve bilateral understanding related to specific implementation issues 
           concerning the SPS Agreement, including clarification of each Party¡¯s 
           regulatory frameworks and rulemaking procedures. 
           
4.   The Parties shall establish the Committee not later than 90 days after the date of entry 
into force of this Agreement through an exchange of letters identifying the primary 
representative of each Party to the Committee and establishing the Committee¡¯s terms of 
reference. 
    
5.   The Committee shall meet at least once a year unless the Parties otherwise agree.  
The venue of meetings shall also be mutually agreed and the chairmanship shall alternate 
between the Parties. 
    
6.   Each Party shall ensure that appropriate representatives with responsibility for the 
development, implementation, and enforcement of SPS measures from its relevant trade and 
regulatory agencies or ministries participate in the Committee meetings. 
    
7.   To coordinate the implementation of this Chapter, in particular the Committee 
meetings and to provide a means of information exchange within a reasonable period of time, 
the Parties shall designate the following contact points: 
         
      (a)     for China, the General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection 
           and Quarantine or its successor; and 
         
      (b)  for Korea, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs or its successor. 
                                   - 54 - 
 
 
         
Article 5.6:   Non-Application of Dispute Settlement  
 
Neither Party shall have recourse to Chapter 20 (Dispute Settlement) for any matter arising 
under this Chapter. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                   - 55 - 
 
 
                                CHAPTER 6 
                    TECHNICAL BARRIERS TO TRADE 
 
 
Article 6.1: Objectives 
 
The objectives of this Chapter are to: 
 
        (a)   promote mutual understanding of each Party¡¯s standards, technical 
               regulations and conformity assessment procedures; 
         
        (b)    strengthen cooperation, including information exchange in the field of 
               standards, technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures, 
               reduce the costs of trade, promote and facilitate bilateral trade between the 
               Parties; and 
         
        (c)      ensure that standards, technical regulations, and conformity assessment 
               procedures do not create unnecessary obstacles to trade. 
 
 
Article 6.2: Scope and Definitions 
 
1. This Chapter shall apply to the preparation, adoption, and application of all standards, 
technical regulations, and conformity assessment procedures of the central government 
bodies that may affect trade in goods between the Parties. 
 
2.    Notwithstanding paragraph 1, this Chapter does not apply to: 
 
       (a)    purchasing specifications prepared by governmental bodies for production 
              or consumption requirements of such bodies; or 
         
       (b)    sanitary and phytosanitary measures as defined in Annex A to the SPS 
              Agreement. 
 
3. Each Party shall take such reasonable measures as may be available to it to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of this Chapter by local government bodies within its territory 
which are responsible for the preparation, adoption and application of technical regulations, 
standards and conformity assessment procedures. 
 
4. For the purposes of this Chapter, the definitions of Annex 1 to the TBT Agreement shall 
apply. 
 
 
Article 6.3: Affirmation of the TBT Agreement 
 
The Parties affirm their existing rights and obligations with respect to each other under the 
TBT Agreement, and to this end, the TBT Agreement is incorporated into and made part of 
this Agreement. 
 

                                   - 56 - 
 
 
 
Article 6.4: Standards 
 
1. With respect to the preparation, adoption and application of standards, each Party shall 
take reasonable measures to ensure that its standardizing body accept and comply with Annex 
3 to the TBT Agreement. 
 
2. Each Party shall encourage the standardizing body or bodies in its territory to cooperate 
with the standardizing body or bodies of the other Party.  Such cooperation shall include, 
but is not limited to, information and experience on standards. 
 
3. Where technical regulation or conformity assessment procedures are required and 
relevant international standards exist or their completion is imminent, each Party shall use 
them, or the relevant parts of them, as a basis for their technical regulations and conformity 
assessment procedures except when such international standards or relevant parts would be 
an ineffective or inappropriate means for the fulfillment of the legitimate objectives pursued. 
 
4. In determining whether an international standard in the sense of Article 2.4 of the TBT 
Agreement exists, each Party shall consider the Decision of WTO Committee on Technical 
Barriers to Trade (hereinafter referred to as ¡°WTO TBT Committee¡±).  Such international 
standards shall include, but are not limited to, those developed by the International 
Organization for Standardization (ISO), the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), 
the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) and Codex Alimentarius Commission 
(CAC). 
 
 
Article 6.5: Technical Regulations 
 
1. Each Party shall, upon written request of the other Party, give positive consideration to 
accepting as equivalent technical regulations of the other Party, even if these regulations 
differ from its own, provided that it is satisfied that these regulations adequately fulfill the 
objectives of its own regulations. 
 
2. Where a Party does not accept a technical regulation of the other Party as equivalent to 
its own, it shall, upon request of the other Party, explain the reasons for its decision. 
 
 
Article 6.6: Conformity Assessment Procedures 
 
1. The Parties recognize that a broad range of mechanisms exist to facilitate the acceptance 
of the results of conformity assessment procedures conducted in the other Party¡¯s territory.  
For example: 
      
       (a)    a Party may agree with the other Party to accept the results of conformity 
              assessment procedures that bodies located in the other Party¡¯s territory 
              conduct with respect to specific technical regulations;  
            
       (b)    a Party may adopt accreditation procedures for qualifying conformity 
              assessment bodies located in the other Party¡¯s territory; 
                                   - 57 - 
 
 
            
       (c)    a Party may designate conformity assessment bodies located in the other 
              Party¡¯s territory; 
            
       (d)    a Party may recognize the results of conformity assessment procedures 
              conducted in the other Party¡¯s territory; 
            
       (e)    conformity assessment bodies located in each of the Parties¡¯ territories may 
              enter into voluntary arrangements to accept the results of each other¡¯s 
              assessment procedures; and 
            
       (f)    the importing Party may rely on a supplier¡¯s declaration of conformity. 
 
2. The Parties shall exchange information on their experience in the development and 
application of the approaches in paragraph 1 and other appropriate approaches and therefore 
encourage their conformity assessment bodies to work closer with a view to facilitating the 
acceptance of conformity assessment results between both Parties. 
 
3. Each Party shall ensure that conformity assessment procedures are prepared, adopted and 
applied so as to grant access of like products originating in the territory of the other Party 
under conditions no less favorable than those accorded to suppliers of like products of 
national origin. 
 
4. The Parties shall give positive consideration to a request by the other Party to negotiate 
agreements for the mutual recognition of the results of their respective conformity assessment 
procedures. 
 
5. The Parties shall cooperate to limit the processing period and fees to the extent necessary 
for conformity assessment procedures. 
 
 
Article 6.7: Transparency 
 
1. Each Party shall allow a period of at least 60 days following the notification of its 
proposed technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures to WTO Central 
Registry of Notifications to solicit comments from the other Party except where urgent 
problems of safety, health, environmental protection, or national security arise or threaten to 
arise. 
 
2. Each Party shall, upon request of the other Party, provide information on the objectives 
of, and rationale for, a technical regulation or conformity assessment procedure that the Party 
has adopted or is proposing to adopt. 
 
3. Each Party should take the comments of the other Party into due consideration, received 
prior to the end of the comment period following the notification of a proposed technical 
regulation, and shall endeavor to provide responses to these comments upon request. 
 
4. The Parties shall ensure that all adopted technical regulations and conformity assessment 
procedures are promptly published or otherwise made available in such a manner as to enable 
                                   - 58 - 
 
 
interested persons of the other Party and the other Party to become acquainted with them. 
 
 
Article 6.8: Cooperation 
 
1. The Parties shall intensify their joint efforts in the fields of technical regulations, 
standards and conformity assessment procedures with a view to enhancing the mutual 
understanding of their respective regulatory systems, improving technical competence and 
facilitating capacity building activities. 
 
2. Each Party shall, upon request of the other Party, give positive consideration to proposals 
of cooperation on technical regulations, standards and conformity assessment procedures.  
Such cooperation, which shall be on mutually determined terms and conditions, may include 
but is not limited to: 
 
       (a)    providing advice or technical assistance relating to the development and 
              application of technical regulations, standards and conformity assessment 
              procedures; 
               
       (b)    encouraging cooperation between their respective organizations, public or 
              private, responsible for metrology, standardization, testing, certification and 
              accreditation; 
               
       (c)    use of accreditation to qualify conformity assessment bodies; 
               
       (d)    enhancing technical capacity in calibration, testing, inspection, certification 
              and accreditation to meet relevant international standards, recommendations 
              and guidelines; 
               
       (e)    cooperation in areas of mutual interest in the work of relevant regional and 
              international bodies relating to the development and application of 
              standards and conformity assessment procedures;  
               
       (f)    strengthening communication and coordination in the WTO TBT 
              Committee and other relevant international or regional fora; and 
               
       (g)    encouraging the implementation of the TBT Agreement.  
         
3. The Parties agree to cooperate on establishment and operation of conformity assessment 
bodies of the other Party in its own territory.  
 
4. The Parties agree to share information and experiences on developing relevant standards, 
technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures for products with new 
technology or new features. 
 
5. The Parties shall encourage their national certification bodies to be member of the 
IECEE-CB scheme and the national certification bodies to accept each other¡¯s IECEE-CB 
test certificate as the basis for national certification to electric safety requirements in order to 
reduce duplicative testing and certification requirements.  
                                   - 59 - 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 6.9: Consumer Product Safety 
 
1. The Parties recognize the importance of ensuring safety of consumer products traded 
between the Parties. 
 
2. The Parties shall exchange information on relevant regulatory systems, incident analysis, 
hazard alerts, products bans, product recalls and market surveillance activities 
 
3. The Parties agree to cooperate on good regulatory practice, the development and 
implementation of risk management principles including product safety monitoring, and 
regulatory enforcement. 
 
 
Article 6.10: Implementing Arrangements 
 
The Parties agree to make their best efforts to negotiate possible implementing arrangements 
with regard to conformity assessment cooperation at their earliest convenience.  The Parties 
may conclude further implementing arrangements in the area of mutual interest. 
 
 
Article 6.11: Marking and Labeling 
 
1. For the purposes of this Article, and in accordance with paragraph 1 of Annex 1 to the 
TBT Agreement, a technical regulation may include or deal exclusively with marking or 
labeling requirements. 
 
2. Each Party shall, in accordance with Article 2.2 of the TBT Agreement, ensure that 
technical regulations, including mandatory marking or labeling of products, are not prepared, 
adopted or applied with a view to, or with the effect of, creating unnecessary obstacles to 
international trade.  For this purpose, such technical regulations shall not be more trade 
restrictive than necessary to fulfill a legitimate objective. 
 
3.     Where a Party requires mandatory marking or labeling of products: 
 
       (a)    the Party shall endeavour to minimize the requirements for marking or 
              labeling other than marking or labeling relevant to consumers or users of 
              the product;   
         
       (b)    the Party may specify the form of labels or markings in a reasonable 
              manner, but shall not require any prior approval, registration or certification 
              in this regard.  This provision is without prejudice to the right of the Party 
              to require prior approval of the specific information to be provided on the 
              label or marking in the light of the relevant domestic regulation; 
         
       (c)    the Party shall, where it requires the use of a unique identification number 
              by economic operators, issue such number to the economic operators of the 
                                   - 60 - 
 
 
              other Party without undue delay and on a non-discriminatory basis; 
         
       (d)    the Party shall remain free to require that information on the marks or labels 
              be in a specified language.   Where an international system of 
              nomenclature has been accepted by the Parties, such nomenclature may be 
              used.   The simultaneous use of additional languages shall not be 
              prohibited, provided that: 
         
                 (i)    the information provided in the other languages is identical to 
                        that provided in the specified language; or 
                  
                 (ii)   the information provided in the additional language does not 
                        constitute a deceptive statement regarding the product; and  
         
       (e)    the Party shall, where it considers that legitimate objectives in accordance 
              with the TBT Agreement are not compromised thereby, endeavour to accept 
              non-permanent or detachable labels. 
 
 
Article 6.12: Measures at the Border 
 
Where a Party detains, at a port of entry, goods including testing samples for conformity 
assessment exported from the other Party due to a perceived failure to comply with a 
technical regulation or conformity assessment procedures, the reasons for the detention shall 
be promptly notified to the importer or his or her representative. 
 
 
Article 6.13: Committee on Technical Barriers to Trade 
 
1. The Parties hereby establish a Committee on Technical Barriers to Trade (hereinafter 
referred to as the ¡°Committee¡±), composed of representatives of each Party as set out in 
paragraph 4. 
 
2.     The Committee¡¯s functions shall include: 
 
       (a)    working to facilitate implementation of this Chapter and cooperation 
              between the Parties in all matters pertaining to this Chapter; 
        
       (b)    monitoring and encouraging the implementation, enforcement, and 
              administration of this Chapter; 
               
       (c)    promptly addressing any issue that a Party raises related to the development, 
              adoption, application, or enforcement of standards, technical regulations, or 
              conformity assessment procedures;  
               
       (d)    enhancing cooperation between the Parties in the areas set out in Article 
              6.8; 
               
       (e)    exchanging information, upon request of a Party, on standards, technical 
                                   - 61 - 
 
 
              regulations, and conformity assessment procedures;  
               
       (f)    exchanging information on developments in non-governmental, regional, 
              and multilateral fora engaged in activities related to standards, technical 
              regulations, and conformity assessment procedures; 
               
       (g)    encouraging the discussion on mutual recognition of the conformity 
              assessment results performed in the other Party¡¯s territory; 
               
       (h)    reviewing this Chapter in light of any development under the WTO TBT 
              Committee and, if necessary, developing recommendations for amendments 
              to this Chapter;  
               
       (i)    as it considers appropriate, reporting to the Joint Commission on the 
              implementation of this Chapter;  
               
       (j)    taking any other steps that the Parties consider will assist them in 
              implementing this Chapter; and 
               
       (k)    upon written request of a Party, consulting with the aim of solving any 
              matter arising under this Chapter within a reasonable period of time. 
               
3.      The Committee shall meet at least once a year, unless the Parties otherwise agree. 
Meetings may be conducted in person, or via teleconference, videoconference, or any other 
means as mutually agreed by the Parties. 
 
4.     For the purposes of this Article, the Committee shall be coordinated by: 
 
       (a)    for China, the General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection 
              and Quarantine, or its successor; and 
        
       (b)    for Korea, the Korean Agency for Technology and Standards, or its 
              successor. 
               
Depending on the issue, responsible ministries or regulatory agencies shall participate in the 
Committee meetings. 
 
5. The authorities set out in paragraph 4 shall be responsible for coordinating with the 
relevant institutions and persons in their respective territories as well as for ensuring that such 
institutions and persons are engaged.  The Committee shall carry out its work through the 
communication channels agreed by the Parties, which may include electronic mail, 
teleconferencing, videoconferencing, or other means. 
 
 
Article 6.14: Information Exchange 
 
1. Any information or explanation that is provided upon request of a Party pursuant to this 
Chapter shall be provided in print or electronically within a reasonable period of time.  A 
Party shall endeavor to respond to each such request within 60 days. 
                                   - 62 - 
 
 
 
2.      Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to require a Party to furnish any 
information the disclosure of which it considers is contrary to its essential security interests. 
 
 
 
 
Article 6.15: Non-Application of Dispute Settlement 
 
Neither Party shall have recourse to Chapter 20 (Dispute Settlement) for any matter arising 
under this Chapter. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                   - 63 - 
 
 
                               CHAPTER 7 
                            TRADE REMEDIES 
 
 
                        Section A: Safeguard Measures 
 
 
Article 7.1: Application of a Safeguard Measure 
 
If, as a result of the reduction or elimination of a customs duty under this Agreement, an 
originating good of the other Party is being imported into the territory of a Party in such 
increased quantities, in absolute terms or relative to domestic production, and under such 
conditions as to cause or threaten to cause serious injury to the domestic industry that 
produces like or directly competitive goods, the Party may:  
 
     (a)      suspend the further reduction of any rate of customs duty on the good provided for 
           under this Agreement; or 
    
     (b)      increase the rate of customs duty on the good to a level not to exceed the lesser of: 
 
           (i)       the most-favored-nation (MFN) applied rate of duty on the good in effect 
                 on the date on which the safeguard measure is applied; and 
 
           (ii)      the  base  rate  of  customs  duty  specified  in  the  Schedules  included  in 
                 Annex 2-A  (Reduction  or Elimination of Customs  Duties)  pursuant to Article 
                 2.4 (Reduction or Elimination of Customs Duties). 
 
 
Article 7.2: Conditions and Limitations 
 
1. A Party shall notify the other Party in writing on initiation of an investigation described 
in paragraph 2 and shall consult with the other Party as far in advance of applying a safeguard 
measure as practicable, with a view to reviewing the information arising from the 
investigation and exchanging views on the measure. 
 
2. A Party shall apply a safeguard measure only following an investigation by the Party¡¯s 
competent authorities in accordance with Articles 3 and 4.2(c) of the Safeguards Agreement, 
and to this end, Articles 3 and 4.2(c) of the Safeguards Agreement are incorporated into and 
made part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
3. In the investigation described in paragraph 2, the Party shall comply with the 
requirements of Articles 4.2(a) and 4.2(b) of the Safeguards Agreement, and to this end, 
Articles 4.2(a) and 4.2(b) of the Safeguards Agreement are incorporated into and made part 
of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
4. Each Party shall ensure that its competent authorities complete any such investigation 
within one year of its date of initiation. 
                                   - 64 - 
 
 
 
5. Neither Party may apply a safeguard measure: 
 
     (a)      except to the extent, and for such time as may be necessary to prevent or remedy 
           serious injury and to facilitate adjustment; 
 
     (b)      for a period exceeding two years, except that the period may be extended by up to 
           two years if the competent authorities of the importing Party determine, in conformity 
           with the procedures specified in this Article, that the measure continues to be 
           necessary to prevent or remedy serious injury and to facilitate adjustment and that 
           there is evidence that the industry is adjusting, provided that the total period of 
           application of a safeguard measure, including the period of initial application and any 
           extension thereof, shall not exceed four years; or  
            
     (c)      beyond the expiration of the transition period, except with the consent of the other 
           Party. 
 
6. No safeguard measure shall be applied again to the import of a good which has been 
subject to such a measure for a period of time equal to that during which such measure had 
been previously applied, provided that the period of non-application is at least two years. 
 
7. Where the expected duration of the safeguard measure is over one year, the importing 
Party shall progressively liberalize it at regular intervals. 
 
8. When a Party terminates a safeguard measure, the rate of customs duty shall be the rate 
that, according to the Party¡¯s Schedule included in Annex 2-A (Reduction or Elimination of 
Customs Duties), would have been in effect but for the measure. 
 
 
Article 7.3: Provisional Measures 
 
1. In critical circumstances where delay would cause damage that would be difficult to 
repair, a Party may apply a safeguard measure on a provisional basis pursuant to a 
preliminary determination by its competent authorities that there is clear evidence that 
imports of an originating good from the other Party have increased as the result of the 
reduction or elimination of a customs duty under this Agreement, and such imports cause or 
threaten to cause serious injury to the domestic industry. 
 
2. The applying Party shall notify the other Party before applying a safeguard measure on a 
provisional basis, and shall initiate consultations after applying the measure. 
 
3. The duration of any provisional measure shall not exceed 200 days, during which time 
the applying Party shall comply with the requirements of Articles 7.2.2 and 7.2.3.  
 
4. The applying Party shall promptly refund any tariff increases if the subsequent 
investigation does not determine that increased imports have caused or threatened to cause 
                                   - 65 - 
 
 
serious injury to a domestic industry.  The duration of any provisional measure shall be 
counted as a part of the duration period of the measure described in Article 7.2.5(b). 
 
 
Article 7.4: Compensation 
 
1. No later than 30 days after it applies a safeguard measure, a Party shall afford an 
opportunity for the other Party to consult with it regarding appropriate trade liberalizing 
compensation in the form of concessions having substantially equivalent trade effects or 
equivalent to the value of the additional duties expected to result from the measure.  The 
applying Party shall provide such compensation as the Parties mutually agree. 
 
2. If the Parties are unable to reach agreement on compensation within 30 days of the 
commencement of consultations, the exporting Party may suspend the application of 
substantially equivalent concessions to the trade of the Party applying the safeguard measure.  
The exporting Party shall notify the applying Party in writing at least 30 days before 
suspending concessions. 
 
3. The applying Party¡¯s obligation to provide compensation under paragraph 1 and the 
exporting Party¡¯s right to suspend concessions under paragraph 2 shall terminate on the date 
the safeguard measure terminates. 
 
4. The right of suspension referred to in paragraph 2 shall not be exercised for the first two 
years that a safeguard measure is in effect, provided that the safeguard measure has been 
taken as a result of an absolute increase in imports and that such a measure conforms to this 
Agreement.  
 
 
Article 7.5: Global Safeguard Measures 
 
1. Each Party retains its rights and obligations under Article XIX of GATT 1994 and the 
Safeguards Agreement.  This Agreement does not confer any additional rights or obligations 
on the Parties with regard to actions taken under Article XIX of GATT 1994 and the 
Safeguards Agreement. 
 
2. On the request of the other Party, the Party intending to take safeguard measures may 
provide immediately ad hoc written notification of all pertinent information on the initiation 
of a safeguard investigation, the preliminary determination and the final determination of the 
investigation. 
 
3. Neither Party may apply, with respect to the same good, at the same time: 
 
     (a)      a bilateral safeguard measure; and  
            
     (b)      a measure under Article XIX of GATT 1994 and the Safeguards Agreement. 
 
 
Article 7.6: Definitions 

                                   - 66 - 
 
 
 
For the purposes of Section A: 
 
domestic industry means, with respect to an imported good, the producers as a whole of the 
like or directly competitive good operating in the territory of a Party, or those whose 
collective output of the like or directly competitive good constitutes a major proportion of the 
total domestic production of that good;  
 
safeguard measure means a measure described in Article 7.1; 
 
serious injury means a significant overall impairment in the position of a domestic industry; 
 
threaten to cause serious injury means to cause serious injury that, on the basis of facts and 
not merely on allegation, conjecture, or remote possibility, is clearly imminent; and 
 
transition period means the ten-year period following the date this Agreement enters into 
force, except that for any good for which the Schedule to Annex 2-A (Reduction or 
Elimination of Customs Duties) of the Party applying the safeguard measure provides for the 
Party to eliminate its tariffs on the good over a period of more than ten years, transition 
period means the tariff elimination period for the good set out in that Schedule. 
 
 
               Section B: Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties 
 
 
Article 7.7: General Provisions 
 
1. Except as otherwise provided for in this Agreement, each Party retains its rights and 
obligations under the WTO Agreement with regard to the application of anti-dumping and 
countervailing duties. 
 
2. The Parties agree that anti-dumping and countervailing duties should be used in full 
compliance with the relevant provisions of WTO Agreements and should be based on a fair 
and transparent system as regards proceedings affecting goods originating in the other Party.  
For this purpose, the Parties shall ensure, immediately after any imposition of provisional 
measures and before the final determination, full and meaningful disclosure of all essential 
facts and considerations which form the basis for the decision to apply measures, without 
prejudice to Article 6.5 of the Anti-Dumping Agreement and Article 12.4 of the SCM 
Agreement.  Disclosures shall be made in writing, and allow interested parties sufficient 
time to make their comments.  The Parties shall take due consideration of the comments 
submitted and make due responses in the final determination. 
 
3. The Parties agree not to take any action in an arbitrary or protectionist manner pursuant 
to the Anti-Dumping Agreement. 
 
4. Both Parties confirm that there shall be no practice between the two Parties to use a 
methodology based on surrogate value of a third country, including the use of surrogate price 
or surrogate cost in determining normal value and export price when determining dumping 
margin during an anti-dumping procedure. 
                                   - 67 - 
 
 
 
5. The Parties confirm their current practice of counting toward the average all individual 
margins, whether positive or negative, when the margins of dumping are established on the 
weighted-to-weighted basis or transaction-to-transaction basis, or weighted-to-transaction 
basis, and share their expectation that such practice will continue.9 
 
 
Article 7.8: Notification and Consultations 
 
1. After receipt by a Party¡¯s competent authorities of a properly documented anti-dumping 
application with respect to imports from the other Party, and no later than seven days before 
initiating an investigation, the Party shall provide written notification to the other Party of its 
receipt of the application, and may afford the other Party a meeting or other similar 
opportunities regarding the application, consistent with the Party¡¯s law. 
 
2. After receipt by a Party¡¯s competent authorities of a properly documented countervailing 
duty application with respect to imports from the other Party, and before initiating an 
investigation, the Party shall provide written notification to the other Party of its receipt of the 
application as soon as possible, and before proceeding to initiate an investigation the Parties 
shall have consultations with a view to finding a mutually acceptable solution. 
 
 
Article 7.9: Undertakings 
 
1. After a Party¡¯s competent authorities initiate an anti-dumping or countervailing duty 
investigation, upon the request of the other Party, the Party shall transmit to the other Party¡¯s 
embassy or competent authorities written information regarding the Party¡¯s procedures for 
requesting its authorities to consider an undertaking on price including the time frames for 
offering and concluding any such undertaking. 
 
2. In an anti-dumping investigation, where a Party¡¯s authorities have made a preliminary 
affirmative determination of dumping and injury caused by such dumping, the Party shall 
afford due consideration and opportunity for meetings, to exporters of the other Party 
regarding proposed price undertakings which, if accepted, may result in suspension of the 
investigation without imposition of anti-dumping duties, consistent with the Party¡¯s laws and 
procedures. 
 
3. In a countervailing duty investigation, where a Party¡¯s authorities have made a 
preliminary affirmative determination of subsidization and injury caused by such 
subsidization, the Party shall afford due consideration and opportunity for meetings, to the 
other Party and exporters of the other Party regarding proposed price undertakings, which, if 
accepted, may result in suspension of the investigation without imposition of countervailing 
duties, consistent with the Party¡¯s laws and procedures. 
 
 
Article 7.10: Verification 

                                                 
9 This is without prejudice to the position each Party takes in the WTO¡¯s Doha Development Agenda 
negotiations on Rules. 
                                   - 68 - 
 
 
 
1. The general nature of information to be verified and information which needs to be 
provided should be notified to the exporters and producers concerned prior to the on-the-spot 
verification. 
 
2. The result of the verification shall be disclosed to the exporters and producers concerned 
subject to the verification within a reasonable period after the verification. 
 
 
Article 7.11: Public Hearing 
 
Each Party shall take due consideration in holding a public hearing, either upon receipt of 
written application from interested parties or on its own initiative. 
 
 
Article 7.12: Investigation after Termination Resulting from a Review 
 
The Parties agree to examine carefully any application for initiation of an anti-dumping 
investigation on a good originating in the other Party and on which anti-dumping measures 
have been terminated in the previous 12 months as a result of a review. 
 
 
Article 7.13: Cumulative Assessment 
 
When imports from more than one country are simultaneously subject to anti-dumping or 
countervailing duty investigation, a Party shall examine carefully whether the cumulative 
assessment of the effect from the imports of the other Party is appropriate in light of the 
conditions of competition between the imported goods and the conditions of competition 
between the imported goods and the like domestic goods. 
 
 
Article 7.14: De-Minimis Standard Applicable to New Shipper Review 
 
When determining individual margin pursuant to Article 9.5 of the Anti-Dumping Agreement, 
no duty shall be imposed on exporters or producers in the exporting Party for which it is 
determined that the dumping margin is less than the de-minimis threshold set out in Article 
5.8 of the Anti-Dumping Agreement. 
 
 
                   Section C: Committee on Trade Remedies 
 
 
Article 7.15: Committee on Trade Remedies 
 
1. The Parties hereby establish a Committee on Trade Remedies (hereinafter referred to as 
the ¡°Committee¡±) to oversee implementation of this Chapter and to discuss matters that the 
Parties agree.   The Committee comprises representatives at an appropriate level from 
relevant agencies responsible for trade remedy measures of each Party. 
 
                                   - 69 - 
 
 
2. The Committee will normally meet once a year and may meet more frequently as the 
Parties may agree. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                   - 70 - 
 
 
                                CHAPTER 8 
                           TRADE IN SERVICES 
                                      
                                      
Article 8.1: Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
(a)  aircraft repair and maintenance services means such activities when undertaken on an 
aircraft or a part thereof while it is withdrawn from service and do not include so-called line 
maintenance; 
 
(b)  commercial presence means any type of business or professional establishment, 
including through: 
 
      (i)   the constitution, acquisition or maintenance of a juridical person; or 
       
       (ii)  the creation or maintenance of a branch or a representative office,  
        
       within the territory of a Party for the purpose of supplying a service; 
 
(c)  computer reservation system (CRS) services means services provided by computerised 
systems that contain information about air carriers' schedules, availability, fares and fare rules, 
through which reservations can be made or tickets may be issued; 
 
(d)  juridical person means any legal entity duly constituted or otherwise organised under 
applicable law, whether for profit or otherwise, and whether privately-owned or 
governmentally-owned, including any corporation, trust, partnership, joint venture, sole 
proprietorship or association; 
 
(e)  juridical person of the other Party means a juridical person which is either: 
 
      (i)   constituted or otherwise organised under the law of the other Party, and is 
            engaged in substantive business operations in the territory of the other Party; 
            or 
                  
      (ii)  in the case of the supply of a service through commercial presence, owned or 
            controlled by: 
 
            1.    a natural person of the other Party; or 
            
            2.    a juridical person of the other Party identified under subparagraph (i); 
             
(f)  A juridical person is: 
 
      (i)   owned by persons of a Party if more than 50 percent of the equity interest in it 
            is beneficially owned by persons of that Party; 
 
      (ii)  controlled by persons of a Party if such persons have the power to name a 
                                   - 71 - 
 
 
            majority of its directors or otherwise to legally direct its actions; or 
                                                  
      (iii) affiliated with another person when it controls, or is controlled by, that other 
            person, or when it and the other person are both controlled by the same 
            person; 
 
(g)    measures means any measure by a Party, whether in the form of a law, regulation, rule, 
procedure, decision, administrative action, or any other form taken by: 
       
      (i)   central or local governments and authorities; or 
 
      (ii)  non-governmental  bodies  in  the  exercise  of  powers  delegated  by  central or 
            local governments or authorities. 
 
(h)    measures by the Parties affecting trade in services include measures in respect of: 
        
       (i)   the purchase, payment or use of a service; 
        
       (ii)  the access to and use of, in connection with the supply of a service, services 
             which are required by the Parties to be offered to the public generally; or 
        
       (iii) the presence, including commercial presence, of persons of a Party for the 
             supply of a service in the territory of the other Party; 
 
(i)    monopoly supplier of a service means any person, public or private, which in 
the relevant market of the territory of a Party is authorised or established formally or in 
effect by that Party as the sole supplier of that service; 
 
(j)    natural person of a Party means: 
 
      (i)   with respect to China, a natural person who resides in the territory of either 
            Party, and who under Chinese law is a national of China; or 
             
      (ii)  with respect to Korea, a national of Korea under its domestic law; 
 
(k)     person means either a natural person or a juridical person; 
 
(l)    sector of a service means, 
 
      (i)   with reference to a specific commitment, one or more, or all, subsectors 
            of  that  service,  as  specified  in  a  Party¡¯s  Schedule  of  Specific 
            Commitment in Annex 8-A; or  
          

                                   - 72 - 
 
 
      (ii)  otherwise,  the  whole  of  that  service  sector,  including  all  of  its 
            subsectors; 
 
(m)    selling and marketing of air transport services mean opportunities for the air carrier 
concerned to sell and market freely its air transport services including all aspects of marketing 
such  as  market  research,  advertising  and  distribution.   These  activities  do  not  include  the 
pricing of air transport services nor the applicable conditions; 
 
(n)     service consumer means any person that receives or uses a service; 
 
(o)     service of the other Party means a service which is supplied: 
       
      (i)   from or in the territory of the other Party, or in the case of maritime transport, 
            by a vessel registered under the laws of the other Party, or by a person of the 
            other Party which supplies the service through the operation of a vessel or its 
            use in whole or in part; or  
       
      (ii)  in the case of the supply of a service through commercial presence or through 
            the presence of natural persons, by the service supplier of the other Party; 
       
(p)  service supplied in the exercise of governmental authority means any service which is 
supplied neither on a commercial basis nor in competition with one or more service suppliers; 
 
(q)     service supplier means any person that supplies a service10; 
 
(r)     supply of a service includes the production, distribution, marketing, sale and delivery 
of a service;  
 
(s)     trade in services means the supply of a service:  
 
     (i)   from the territory of a Party into the territory of the other Party; 
 
      (ii)    in the territory of a Party by a person of that Party to a person of the 
             other Party; 
       
      (iii)   by a service supplier of a Party, through commercial presence in the 
             territory of the other Party; or 
 
      (iv)    by a service supplier of a Party, through presence of natural persons 

                                                 
10 Where the service is not supplied directly by a juridical person but through other forms of commercial presence such as a 
branch or a representative office, the service supplier (i.e. the juridical person) shall, nonetheless, through such presence be 
accorded the treatment provided for service suppliers under this Chapter. Such treatment shall be extended to the presence 
through which the service is supplied and need not be extended to any other parts of the supplier located outside the territory 
where the service is supplied.  
                                   - 73 - 
 
 
             of a Party in the territory of the other Party; and  
 
          (t)     traffic rights means the right for scheduled and non-scheduled services to operate 
    and/or to carry passengers, cargo and mail for remuneration or hire from, to, within, or over the 
    territory  of  a  Party,  including  points  to  be  served,  routes  to be  operated,  types  of  traffic  to  be 
    carried,  capacity  to  be  provided,  tariffs  to  be  charged  and  their  conditions,  and  criteria  for 
    designation of airlines, including such criteria as number, ownership, and control. 
 
                                      
Article 8.2: Scope 
 
1. This Chapter shall apply to measures adopted or maintained by a Party affecting trade in 
services. 
           
2. This Chapter shall not apply to: 
 
      (a)   subsidies or grants provided by a Party except as provided for in Article 8.13 
            including government-supported loans, guarantees and insurance; 
       
      (b)    services provided in the exercise of governmental authority within the territory 
            of each respective Party;  
       
      (c)    cabotage in maritime transport services; 
       
      (d)    measures affecting air traffic rights, however granted or measures affecting 
            services directly related to the exercise of air traffic rights, other than 
            measures affecting: 
       
            (i)   aircraft repair and maintenance services;  
                   
            (ii)  the selling and marketing of air transport services; and  
 
            (iii) computer reservation system ("CRS") services; 
 
      (e)   financial services as defined in Article 9.14 (Definitions)11; and 
 
      (f)    measures affecting natural persons seeking access to the employment market 
            of a Party, or measures regarding citizenship, residence or employment on a 
            permanent basis. 
 
3. Nothing in this Chapter shall prevent a Party from applying measures to regulate the 
entry of natural persons of the other Party into, or their temporary stay in, its territory, 
including those measures necessary to protect the integrity of, and to ensure the orderly 
                                                 
11 Nevertheless, the Specific Commitments with regards to financial services are included in the Annex 8-A (Schedule of 
Specific Commitments). 
 
                                   - 74 - 
 
 
movement of natural persons across, its borders, provided that such measures are not applied 
in such a manner as to nullify or impair the benefits12 accruing to the other Party under the 
terms of this Chapter as well as the terms of specific commitments undertaken. 
 
4. Articles 8.3 and 8.4 shall not apply to laws, regulations or requirements governing the 
procurement by government agencies of services purchased for governmental purposes and 
not with a view to commercial resale or with a view to use in the supply of services for 
commercial sale. 
 
 
Article 8.3: Market Access 
 
1. With respect to market access through the modes of supply defined in Article 8.1, each 
Party shall accord to services and service suppliers of the other Party treatment no less 
favourable than that provided for under the terms, limitations and conditions agreed and 
specified in its Schedule of Specific Commitments in Annex 8-A13. 
 
2. In sectors where market access commitments are undertaken, the measures which a Party 
shall not maintain or adopt either on the basis of a regional subdivision or on the basis of its 
entire territory, unless otherwise specified in its Schedule of Specific Commitments, are 
defined as:   
 
      (a)   limitations on the number of service suppliers whether in the form of 
            numerical quotas, monopolies, exclusive service suppliers or the requirement 
            of an economic needs test;  
       
      (b)   limitations on the total value of service transactions or assets in the form of 
            numerical quotas or the requirement of an economic needs test;  
       
      (c)   limitations on the total number of service operations or the total quantity of 
            services output expressed in terms of designated numerical units in the form of 
            quotas or the requirement of an economic needs test14; 
       
      (d)   limitations on the total number of natural persons that may be employed in a 
            particular service sector or that a service supplier may employ and who are 
            necessary for, and directly related to, the supply of a specific service in the 
            form of numerical quotas or the requirement of an economic needs test; 

                                                 
12 The sole fact of requiring a visa for natural persons of certain countries and not for those of others shall not 
be regarded as nullifying or impairing benefits under a specific commitment. 
 
13 If  a  Party  undertakes  a  market access  commitment  in  relation  to  the  supply  of  a  service  through  the  mode  of  supply 
referred to in Article 8.1(s)(i) and if the cross-border movement of capital is an essential part of the service itself, that Party 
is thereby committed to allow such movement of capital.   If a Party undertakes a market-access commitment in relation to 
the supply of a service through the mode of supply referred to in Article 8.1(s)(iii), it is thereby committed to allow related 
transfers of capital into its territory. 
 
14 This subparagraph does not cover measures of a Party which limit inputs for the supply of services. 
 
 
                                   - 75 - 
 
 
       
      (e)   measures which restrict or require specific types of legal entity or joint venture 
            through which a service supplier may supply a service; and  
       
      (f)   limitations on the participation of foreign capital in terms of maximum 
            percentage limit on foreign shareholding or the total value of individual or 
            aggregate foreign investment.  
 
 
Article 8.4: National Treatment 
 
1. In the sectors inscribed in its Schedule of Specific Commitments, and subject to any 
conditions and qualifications set out therein, each Party shall accord to services and service 
suppliers of the other Party, in respect of all measures affecting the supply of services, 
treatment no less favourable than that it accords to its own like services and service 
suppliers.15 
 
2. A Party may meet the requirement in paragraph 1 by according to services and service 
suppliers of the other Party either formally identical treatment or formally different treatment 
to that it accords to its own like services and service suppliers. 
 
3. Formally identical or formally different treatment shall be considered to be less 
favourable if it modifies the conditions of competition in favour of services or service 
suppliers of the Party compared to like service or service suppliers of the other Party. 
 
 
Article 8.5: Additional Commitments 
 
The Parties may negotiate commitments with respect to measures affecting trade in services 
not subject to scheduling under Article 8.3 or Article 8.4, including those regarding 
qualifications, standards or licensing matters.  Such commitments shall be inscribed in a 
Party¡¯s Schedule of Specific Commitments. 
 
 
Article 8.6: Schedule of Specific Commitments 
 
1. Each Party shall set out in its Schedule the specific commitments it undertakes under 
Articles 8.3, 8.4, and 8.5.  With respect to sectors where such commitments are undertaken, 
each Schedule of specific commitments shall specify: 
 
      (a) terms, limitations and conditions on market access; 
       
      (b) conditions and qualifications on national treatment; 
       
                                                 
15 Specific commitments assumed under this Article shall not be construed to require any 
Party to compensate for any inherent competitive disadvantages which result from the foreign 
character of the relevant services or service suppliers. 
 
                                   - 76 - 
 
 
      (c) undertakings relating to additional commitments; and 
       
      (d) where appropriate, the time frame for implementation of such commitments. 
 
2. Measures inconsistent with Articles 8.3 and 8.4 shall be inscribed in the column relating 
to Article 8.3.  In this case, the inscription will be considered to provide a condition or 
qualification to Article 8.4 as well. 
 
3. Schedules of Specific Commitments shall be annexed to this Chapter and shall form an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
4. Neither Party may adopt new, or more, discriminatory measures with regard to services 
and service supplier of the other Party in comparison with treatment accorded pursuant to the 
specific commitments undertaken in conformity with paragraph 1.16 
 
 
Article 8.7: Domestic Regulation 
 
1. In sectors where specific commitments are undertaken, each Party shall ensure that all 
measures of general application affecting trade in services are administered in a reasonable, 
objective and impartial manner. 
 
2.     (a)   Each Party shall maintain or institute as soon as practicable judicial, 
             arbitral or administrative tribunals or procedures which provide, at the 
             request  of  an  affected  service  supplier,  for  a  prompt  review  of,  and 
             where  justified,  appropriate  remedies  for,  administrative  decisions 
             affecting  trade  in  services.  Where  such  procedures  are  not 
             independent of the agency entrusted with the administrative decision 
             concerned, the Party shall ensure that the procedures in fact provide 
             for an objective and impartial review. 
 
       (b)   The provisions of subparagraph (a) shall not be construed to require a 
             Party  to  institute  such  tribunals  or  procedures  where  this  would  be 
             inconsistent  with  its  constitutional  structure  or  the  nature  of  its  legal 

             system. 
      
3. Where  authorisation is required for the supply of a service on  which a specific 
commitment has been made, the competent authorities of a Party shall, within a reasonable 
period of time after the submission of an application considered complete under its domestic 
laws and regulations, inform the applicant of the decision concerning the application.  On 
the  request  of  the  applicant,  the  competent  authorities  of  the  Party  shall  provide,  without 
                                                 
16 This paragraph is only applicable to Annex 8-A under this Chapter.    
                                   - 77 - 
 
 
undue delay, information concerning the status of the application. 
 
4.      With  a  view  to  ensuring  that  measures  relating  to  qualification  requirements  and 
procedures,  technical  standards  and  licensing  requirements  do  not  constitute  unnecessary 
barriers to trade in services, the Parties shall jointly review the results of the negotiations on 
disciplines on these measures pursuant to Article VI.4 of GATS, with a view to incorporating 
them  into  this  Chapter.   The  Parties  note  that  such  disciplines  aim  to  ensure  that  such 
requirements are, inter alia: 
 
       (a)   based on objective and transparent criteria, such as competence and the 
             ability to supply the service;  
      
       (b)   not more burdensome than necessary to ensure the quality of the service; and 
      
       (c)   in the case of licensing procedures, not in themselves a restriction on the 
             supply of the service.  
 
5.     (a)   In  sectors  in  which  a  Party  has  undertaken  specific  commitments, 
             pending the incorporation of the disciplines referred to in paragraph 4, 
             that Party shall not apply licensing and qualification requirements and 
             technical  standards  that  nullify  or  impair  its  obligation  under  this 

             Agreement in a manner which: 
 
             (i)   does not comply with the criteria outlined in subparagraphs 4(a), (b) 
                   or (c); and 
         
             (ii)  could not reasonably have been expected of that Party at the time the 
                   specific commitments in those sectors were made. 
 
       (b)   In  determining  whether  a  Party  is  in conformity  with  the  obligation 
             under  paragraph  5(a),  account  shall  be  taken  of  international 
             standards  of  relevant  international  organisations  applied  by  that 

             Party.17 
                                       
6.     In  sectors  where  specific  commitments  regarding  professional  services  are 
undertaken,  each  Party  shall  provide  for  adequate  procedures  to  verify  the  competence  of 
professionals of the other Party. 
 
                                      
Article 8.8: Transparency 
 
1.     Each Party shall publish promptly all relevant measures of general application which 
                                                 
17 The term ¡°relevant international organizations¡± refers to international bodies whose membership is open to the relevant 
bodies of at least all Members of the WTO. 
                                   - 78 - 
 
 
pertain to or affect the operation of this Chapter.  International agreements pertaining to or 
affecting trade in services to which a Party is a signatory shall also be published. 
 
2.     Where publication as referred to in paragraph 1 is not practicable, such information 
shall be made otherwise publicly available. 
 
3.     Each Party shall promptly and at least annually inform the Committee on Trade in 
Services referred to in Article 8.14 of the introduction of any new, or any changes to existing, 
laws, regulations or administrative guidelines which significantly affect trade in services 
covered by its specific commitments under this Chapter. 
 
4.  Each Party shall respond promptly to all requests by the other Party for specific 
information on any of its measures of general application or international agreements within 
the meaning of paragraph 1.   Each Party shall also establish one or more enquiry points to 
provide specific information to the other Party, upon request, on all such matters as well as 
those subject to the notification requirement in paragraph 3.   Such enquiry points shall be 
established within two years from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 
 
5.     Each Party may notify to the Committee on Trade in Services referred to in Article 
8.14 any measure, taken by the other Party, which it considers affects the operation of this 
Chapter. 
 
                                      
Article 8.9: Recognition 
 
1. For the purposes of the fulfilment, in whole or in part, of its standards or criteria for the 
authorisation, licensing, or certification of services suppliers, and subject to the requirements 
of  paragraph 4,  a  Party  may  recognise the  education  or  experience  obtained,  requirements 
met, or licenses or certifications granted in the other Party.  Such recognition, which may be 
achieved  through harmonisation  or  otherwise,  may  be  based  upon  an  agreement  or 
arrangement between  the  Parties  or  the  relevant  competent  bodies or  may  be  accorded 
autonomously. 
 
2. Where a Party recognises, autonomously or by agreement or arrangement, the education 
or experience obtained, requirements met, or licenses or certifications granted in the territory 
of  a  non-Party, the Party is  not  obliged to  accord  such  recognition  to  the  education  or 
experience obtained, requirements met, or licenses or certifications granted in the territory of 
the other Party. 
 
3. A Party that is a party to an agreement or arrangement of the type referred to in 
paragraph 2, whether existing or future, shall afford adequate opportunity for the other Party, 
upon request, to negotiate its accession to such an agreement or arrangement or to negotiate a 
comparable one with it.  Where a Party accords recognition autonomously, it shall afford 
adequate opportunity for the other Party to demonstrate that education, experience, licenses, 
or certifications obtained or requirements met in that other Party¡¯s territory should be 
recognised. 
 
4. A  Party  shall  not  accord  recognition  in  a  manner  which  would  constitute  a  means  of 
discrimination  between  countries  in  the  application  of  its  standards  or  criteria  for  the 
                                   - 79 - 
 
 
authorisation,  licensing,  or  certification  of  service  suppliers,  or  a  disguised  restriction  on 
trade in services. 
 
5.    Each Party shall endeavour: 
 
      (a)   within 12 months from the date on which this Agreement takes effect for it, to 
            inform the Committee on Trade in Services of its existing recognition 
            measures and state whether such measures are based on agreements or 
            arrangements of the type referred to in paragraph 1;   
 
      (b)   to promptly inform the Committee on Trade in Services as far in advance as 
            possible of the opening of negotiations on an agreement or arrangement of the 
            type referred to in paragraph 1 in order to provide adequate opportunity to the 
            other Party to indicate their interest in participating in the negotiations before 
            they enter a substantive phase; and  
 
      (c)   to promptly inform the Committee on Trade in Services when it adopts new 
            recognition measures or significantly modifies existing ones and state whether 
            the measures are based on an agreement or arrangement of the type referred to 
            in paragraph 1. 
       
          6.     Wherever appropriate, recognition should be based on multilaterally agreed criteria.  
    In  appropriate  cases,  the  Parties  shall  work  in  cooperation  with  relevant  intergovernmental  and 
    non-governmental organisations towards the establishment and adoption of common international 
    standards  and  criteria  for  recognition  and  common  international  standards  for  the  practice  of 
    relevant services trades and professions. 
 
 
Article 8.10: Payments and Transfers 
 
1. Except under the circumstances envisaged in Article XII (Restrictions to Safeguard the 
Balance of Payments) of GATS, a Party shall not apply restrictions on international transfers 
and payments for current transactions relating to its specific commitments. 
 
2. Nothing in this Chapter shall affect the rights and obligations of the Parties as members 
of the International Monetary Fund under the Articles of Agreement of the International 
Monetary Fund (¡°Articles of Agreement¡±), including the use of exchange actions which are 
in conformity with the Articles of Agreement, provided that a Party shall not impose 
restrictions on any capital transactions inconsistently with its specific commitments regarding 
such transactions, except under Article XII (Restrictions to Safeguard the Balance of 
Payments) of GATS or at the request of the International Monetary Fund. 
 
       
Article 8.11: Denial of Benefits 
 


                                   - 80 - 
 
 
Subject to prior notification and consultation, a Party may deny the benefits of this Chapter to 
service suppliers of the other Party where the service is being supplied by a juridical person, 
if it is: 
 
      (a)   owned or controlled by persons of a non-Party and has no substantive business 
            operations in the territory of the other Party;  
          
      (b)   owned or controlled by persons of the denying Party and has no substantive 
            business operations in the territory of the other Party; or 
          
      (c)   owned or controlled by persons of a non-Party, and the denying Party adopts 
            or maintains measures with respect to the non-Party or a person of the 
            non-Party that prohibit transactions with the juridical person or that would be 
            violated or circumvented if the benefits of this Chapter were accorded to the 
            juridical person. 
    
    
Article 8.12: Monopolies and Exclusive Service Suppliers 
 
1.    Each Party shall ensure that any monopoly supplier of a service in its territory 
does  not,  in  the  supply  of  the  monopoly  service  in  the  relevant  market,  act  in  a 
manner inconsistent with that Party¡¯s obligations and specific commitments. 
 
2. Where  a  Party's  monopoly  supplier  competes,  either  directly  or  through  an  affiliated 
company, in the supply of a service outside the scope of its monopoly rights and which is 
subject to that Party¡¯s specific commitments, the Party shall ensure that such a supplier does 
not  abuse  its  monopoly  position  to  act  in  its  territory  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  such 
commitments. 
 
3.     If a Party has  reason  to  believe that  a monopoly supplier of a service of the other 
Party is  acting in  a manner inconsistent  with  paragraph 1 or 2, that Party  may  request  the 
other  Party  establishing,  maintaining  or  authorizing  such  supplier  to  provide  specific 
information concerning the relevant operations. 
 
4. This  Article  shall  also  apply  to  cases  of  exclusive  service  suppliers,  where  a  Party, 
formally or in effect, (a) authorises or establishes a small number of service suppliers and (b) 
substantially prevents competition among those suppliers in its territory. 
 
 
Article 8.13: Subsidies 
 


                                   - 81 - 
 
 
1. The Parties shall review the issue of disciplines on subsidies related to trade in services 
in the light of any disciplines agreed under Article XV of GATS with a view to their 
incorporation into this Agreement. 
 
2.      At the  request of  a Party  which  considers that  it  is adversely affected  by a 
subsidy of the other Party, the Parties shall enter into consultations on such matters. 
 
 
Article 8.14: Committee on Trade in Services 
 
1.  The Parties hereby establish a Committee on Trade in Services (hereinafter referred to as 
the ¡°Committee¡±), comprising representatives of each Party. 
 
2.  The Committee¡¯s functions shall include: 
 
       (a)  reviewing the implementation and operation of this Chapter; 
          
       (b)  identifying and recommending measures to promote trade in services; 
            and 
 
       (c)  at  a  Party¡¯s  request,  consulting  on  any  matter  arising  under  this 
            Chapter. 
 
3.  The Committee shall meet within one year after the date this Agreement enters into force 
and annually thereafter unless the Parties otherwise agree.  The Committee shall inform the 
Joint Commission of the results of each meeting.  
 
 
Article 8.15: Business Practices 
 
1. The Parties recognise that certain business practices of service suppliers, other than those 
falling under Article 8.12, may restrain competition and thereby restrict trade in services. 
 
2. Each  Party  shall, on the  request  of the other  Party  (¡°Requesting  Party¡±),  enter  into 
consultations  with  a  view  to  eliminating  practices  referred  to  in  paragraph  1.   The  Party 
addressed  (¡°Requested  Party¡±),  shall  accord  full  and  sympathetic  consideration  to  such  a 
request  and  shall  cooperate  through  the  supply  of  publicly  available  non-confidential 
information of relevance to the matter in question.   The Requested Party shall also provide 
other information  available to  the Requesting Party, subject  to  its  domestic law and to  the 
conclusion of satisfactory agreement concerning the safeguarding of its confidentiality by the 
Requesting Party. 
 
 
Article 8.16: Contact Points 
 
                                   - 82 - 
 
 
       Each Party shall designate one or more contact points to facilitate communications 
between the Parties on any matter covered by this Chapter, and shall provide details of such 
contact points to the other Party.  Each Party shall notify each other promptly of any 
amendments to the details of its contact points. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                   - 83 - 
 
 
 
                               CHAPTER 9 
                          FINANCIAL SERVICES 
                                      
                                      
Article 9.1: Scope and Coverage 
 
1.  This Chapter applies to measures affecting the supply of financial services. 
      
2. Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to prevent a Party, including its public entities, 
from exclusively conducting or providing in its territory: 
 
     (a)   activities or services forming part of a public retirement plan or statutory 
           system of social security;  
 
     (b)   activities or services for the account or with the guarantee or using the 
           financial resources of the Party, including its public entities; or 
 
     (c)            activities or services conducted by a central bank, monetary 
           authority or any other public entity in pursuit of monetary or exchange rate 
           policies. 
 
3.  This Chapter does not apply to laws, regulations, or requirements governing the 
procurement by government agencies of financial services purchased for governmental 
purposes and not with a view to commercial resale or use in the supply of services for 
commercial sale. 
 
        
Article 9.2: National Treatment 
 
1. In the sectors inscribed in its Schedule of Specific Commitments in Annex 8-Awith 
regards to Financial Services, and subject to any conditions and qualifications set out therein, 
each Party shall accord to financial services and financial service suppliers of the other Party, 
in respect of all measures affecting the supply of financial services, treatment no less 
favourable than that it accords to its own like financial services and financial service 
suppliers18.  
 
2. A Party may meet the requirement in paragraph 1 by according to financial services and 
financial service suppliers of the other Party either formally identical treatment or formally 
different treatment to that it accords to its own like financial services and financial service 
suppliers. 
 
3  Formally identical or formally different treatment shall be considered to be less 
favourable if it modifies the conditions of competition in favour of financial services or 
financial service suppliers of the Party compared to like financial service or financial service 
suppliers of the other Party. 
                                                 
18 Specific commitments assumed under this Article shall not be construed to require any Party to compensate 
for any inherent competitive disadvantages which result from the foreign character of the relevant financial 
services or financial service suppliers. 
                                   - 84 - 
 
 
 
 
Article 9.3: Market Access for Financial Institutions 
 
1.    With respect to market access through the financial services supply, each Party shall 
accord to financial services and financial service suppliers of the other Party treatment no less 
favourable than that provided for under the terms, limitations and conditions agreed and 
specified in its Schedule of Specific Commitments in Annex 8-A. 
 
2.    In sectors where market access commitments are undertaken, the measures which a 
Party shall not adopt or maintain, either on the basis of a regional subdivision or on the basis 
of its entire territory, unless otherwise specified in its Schedule of Specific Commitments in 
Annex 8-A, are defined as: 
 
     (a)     limitations on the number of financial service suppliers whether in the form of numerical 
             quotas, monopolies, exclusive service suppliers, or the requirement of an economic 
             needs test; 
                   
     (b)     limitations on the total value of financial service transactions or assets in the form of 
             numerical quotas or the requirement of an economic needs test; 
 
     (c)     limitations on the total number of financial service operations or on the total quantity of 
             financial services output expressed in terms of designated numerical units in the form of 
             quotas or the requirement of an economic needs test19;  
 
     (d)     limitations on the total number of natural persons that may be employed in a particular 
             financial service sector or that a financial service suppliers may employ and who are 
             necessary for, and directly related to, the supply of a specific financial service in the 
             form of numerical quotas or the requirement of an economic needs test;  
             
     (e)     measures which restrict or require specific types of legal entity or joint venture through 
             which a financial institution may supply a service; and 
       
     (f)     limitations on the participation of foreign capital in terms of maximum percentage limit on 
             foreign shareholding or the total value of individual or aggregate foreign investment.  
 
 
Article 9.4: Treatment of Certain Information 
 
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to require a Party to disclose information relating 
to the affairs and accounts of individual customers or any confidential or proprietary 
information in the possession of public entities. 
 
                                                 
19 This subparagraph does not cover measures of a Party which limit inputs for the supply of financial services. 
                                            - 85 - 
 
 
 
Article 9.5: Prudential Carve Out 
 
1. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Chapter or Chapter 12 (Investment), a Party 
shall not be prevented from adopting or maintaining measures for prudential reasons, 
including for the protection of investors, depositors, policy holders, or persons to whom a 
fiduciary duty is owed by a financial service supplier, or to ensure the integrity and stability 
of the financial system. 
 
2. Where such measures do not conform to the provisions of this Agreement referred to in 
paragraph 1, they shall not be used as a means of avoiding the Party¡¯s commitments or 
obligations under such provisions. 
 
 
Article 9.6: Transparency20 
 
1. The Parties recognise that transparent regulations and policies governing the activities of 
financial service suppliers are important in facilitating access to, and their operations in, each 
other¡¯s markets.  Each Party commits to promote regulatory transparency in financial 
services.  
 
2. Each Party shall ensure that all measures of general application to which this Chapter 
shall apply are administered in a reasonable, objective, and impartial manner. 
 
3. In lieu of paragraph 2 of Article 18.1 (Publication), each Party, to the extent possible: 
 
      (a)   shall publish in advance any regulations of general application relating to the 
            subject matter of this Chapter that it proposes to adopt and the purpose of the 
            regulations; and 
       
      (b)   shall provide interested persons and the other Party a reasonable opportunity 
            to comment on such proposed regulations. 
       
4. To the extent possible, each Party shall endeavour to allow reasonable time between 
publication of final regulations of general application and their effective date. 
 
5. Each Party shall establish or maintain appropriate channels for receiving inquiries 
regarding measures of general application covered by this Chapter. 
 
6. Each Party¡¯s regulatory authorities shall make publicly available the requirements, 
including any documentation required, for completing applications relating to the supply of 
financial services. 
 
7. A Party¡¯s regulatory authority shall inform the applicant of the status of its application 
within the timeframe as stipulated by relevant regulations.  If the authority requires 
additional information from the applicant, it shall notify the applicant without undue delay. 
                                                 
20 Both Parties respect each other¡¯s domestic legal requirements and recognise the commitments of the Article on 
Transparency undertaken in the WTO Protocol in the accession of the People¡¯s Republic of China. 
                                   - 86 - 
 
 
 
8. A Party¡¯s regulatory authority shall make an administrative decision on a completed 
application of financial service suppliers of the other Party relating to the supply of a 
financial service within the timeframe as stipulated by relevant regulations, and shall 
promptly notify the applicant of the decision.  An application shall not be considered 
complete until all necessary information is received.  Where it is not practicable for an 
administrative decision to be made within 180 days, the regulatory authority shall notify the 
applicant without undue delay and shall endeavour to make the decision within the timeframe 
as stipulated by relevant regulations thereafter.  
 
9. On the request of an unsuccessful applicant, a regulatory authority that has denied an 
application shall, to the extent possible, inform the applicant of the reasons for denial of the 
application. 
 
 
Article 9.7: Payment and Clearing Systems 
 
Under terms and conditions that accord national treatment, each Party shall grant financial 
institutions of the other Party established in its territory access to payment and clearing 
systems21 operated by public entities, and to official funding and refinancing facilities 
available in the normal course of ordinary business.  This Article is not intended to confer 
access to the Party¡¯s lender of last resort facilities. 
 
 
Article 9.8: Recognition of Prudential Measures 
 
1. A Party may recognise prudential measures of a non-Party in determining how the Party¡¯s 
measures relating to financial services shall be applied.  Such recognition, which may be 
achieved through harmonisation or otherwise, may be based upon an agreement or 
arrangement with the non-Party concerned or may be accorded autonomously. 
          
2. A Party that is a party to such an agreement or arrangement referred to in paragraph 1, 
whether future or existing, shall afford adequate opportunity for the other Party to negotiate 
its accession to such an agreement or arrangement, or to negotiate comparable ones with it, 
under circumstances in which there would be equivalent regulation, oversight, 
implementation of such regulation, and, if appropriate, procedures concerning the sharing of 
information between the parties to the agreement or arrangement.  Where a Party accords 
recognition autonomously, it shall afford adequate opportunity for the other Party to 
demonstrate that such circumstances exist. 
 
 
Article 9.9: Specific Commitments22 
 
                                                 
21 For greater certainty, for China, the High Value Payment System and the Bulk Electronic Payment System are provided 
by the People¡¯s Bank of China, and for Korea, the large amount payment and clearing system services are provided by the 
Bank of Korea and the small amount payment and clearing system services are provided by the Korea Financial 
Telecommunications and Clearings Institute. 
22 Notwithstanding this Article, the Specific Commitments for Financial Services by a Party in relation to Articles 9.2 and 
9.3 shall be contained in the Schedule of Specific Commitments in the Annex 8-A. 
                                   - 87 - 
 
 
Annex 9-A sets out certain specific commitments by each Party. 
 
 
Article 9.10: Committee on Financial Services 
 
1. The Committee on Financial Services (hereinafter referred to as the ¡°Committee¡±) 
established in accordance with Article 19.4 (Committees and Other Bodies) shall comprise 
officials of each Party responsible for financial services as set out in paragraph 2 of Annex 
9-A. 
 
2. The Committee shall: 
 
      (a)   supervise the implementation of this Chapter and its further elaboration; and 
             
      (b)   consider issues regarding financial services that are referred to it by a Party, including 
            ways for the Parties to cooperate more effectively in the financial services sector. 
 
3. The Committee shall meet as agreed, to assess the functioning of this Agreement as it 
applies to financial services. 
 
 
Article 9.11: Consultations 
 
1. A Party may request consultations with the other Party regarding any matter arising 
under this Agreement that affects financial services.  The other Party shall give due 
consideration to the request.  
 
2. Consultations under this Article shall include officials of the authorities specified in 
paragraph 2 of Annex 9-A. 
 
 
Article 9.12: Dispute Settlement 
 
Panels for disputes on prudential issues and other financial matters shall have the necessary 
expertise relevant to the specific financial service under dispute. 
 
 
Article 9.13: Prior Consultation for Investment Disputes in Financial Services 
 
Where an investor of a Party in financial institutions submits a claim under Article 12.12 
(Settlement of Investment Disputes between a Party and an Investor of the Other Party), and 
the respondent invokes Article 9.5 as a defence, upon request from the respondent, both 
Parties shall consult with each other and attempt in good faith to make a determination which 
shall be binding on the tribunal within 180 days after the claim is submitted. 
 
 
Article 9.14: Definitions 
 
                                   - 88 - 
 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
financial service means any service of a financial nature offered by a financial service 
supplier of a Party.  Financial services include all insurance and insurance-related services, 
and all banking and other financial services (excluding insurance).  Financial services 
include the following activities: 
 
Insurance and insurance-related services 
 
      (a)   Direct insurance (including co-insurance): 
 
            (i)   life, 
              
            (ii)  non-life; 
 
      (b)   Reinsurance and retrocession; 
       
      (c) Insurance intermediation, such as brokerage and agency; and 
 
      (d)  Services auxiliary to insurance, such as consultancy, actuarial, risk assessment, 
            and claim settlement services. 
 
Banking and other financial services (excluding insurance) 
 
      (e)   Acceptance of deposits and other repayable funds from the public; 
       
      (f)   Lending of all types, including consumer credit, mortgage credit, factoring, 
            and financing of commercial transactions; 
       
      (g)   Financial leasing; 
       
      (h)   All payment and money transmission services, including credit, charge and 
            debit cards, traveller¡¯s cheques, and bankers drafts; 
       
      (i)   Guarantees and commitments; 
 
      (j)   Trading for own account or for account of customers, whether on an exchange, 
            in an over-the-counter market, or otherwise, the following: 
 
            (i)   money market instruments (including cheques, bills, certificates of 
                  deposits); 
             
            (ii)  foreign exchange; 
             
            (iii) derivative products including, but not limited to, futures and options; 
             
            (iv)  exchange rate and interest rate instruments, including products such as 
                  swaps, forward rate agreements; 
             
                                   - 89 - 
 
 
            (v)   transferable securities; and  
             
            (vi)  other negotiable instruments and financial assets, including bullion; 
 
      (k)   Participation in issues of all kinds of securities, including underwriting and 
            placement as agent (whether publicly or privately) and provision of services 
            related to such issues; 
       
      (l) Money broking; 
       
      (m)   Asset management, such as cash or portfolio management, all forms of 
            collective investment management, pension fund management, custodial, 
            depository, and trust services; 
       
      (n)   Settlement and clearing services for financial assets, including securities, 
            derivative products, and other negotiable instruments; 
             
      (o)   Provision and transfer of financial information, and financial data processing 
            and related software by suppliers of other financial services; and 
       
      (p)   Advisory, intermediation, and other auxiliary financial services on all the 
            activities listed in subparagraphs (e) through (o), including credit reference 
            and analysis, investment and portfolio research and advice, advice on 
            acquisitions and on corporate restructuring and strategy; 
       
financial service supplier means any natural or juridical person of a Party wishing to supply 
or supplying financial services but the term ¡°financial service supplier¡± does not include a 
public entity; 
       
measures means any measure by a Party, whether in the form of a law, regulation, rule, 
procedure, decision, administrative action, or any other form taken by: 
       
      (i)   central or local governments and authorities; and 
 
      (ii)  non-governmental bodies in the exercise of powers delegated by central or 
            local governments or authorities; 
       
supply of a financial service means the supply of a service: 
 
     (i)   from the territory of a Party into the territory of the other Party; 
 
     (ii)  in the territory of a Party by a person of that Party to a person of the other 
           Party; 
       
     (iii)  by a financial service supplier of a Party, through commercial presence in the 
            territory of the other Party; or 
 
     (iv)   by a financial service supplier of a Party, through presence of natural persons 
            of a Party in the territory of the other Party; 
                                   - 90 - 
 
 
       
public entity means a government, a central bank or monetary authority of a Party, or an 
entity owned or controlled by a Party, that is principally engaged in carrying out 
governmental functions or activities for governmental purposes, not including an entity 
principally engaged in supplying financial services on commercial terms; or a private entity, 
performing functions normally performed by a central bank or monetary authority, when 
exercising those functions. 
                         


                                   - 91 - 
 
 
                                ANNEX 9-A 
                        SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS 
                                           
 
1. Supervisory Cooperation 
 
The Parties support the efforts of their respective financial regulators to provide assistance to 
the regulators of the other Party to enhance consumer protection and those regulators¡¯ ability 
to prevent, detect, and prosecute unfair and deceptive practices.  Each Party confirms that its 
financial regulators have the legal authority to exchange information in support of those 
efforts.   The Parties shall encourage financial regulators to continue their ongoing efforts to 
strengthen this cooperation through bilateral consultations or bilateral or multilateral 
international cooperative mechanisms, such as memoranda of understanding or ad hoc 
undertakings. 
 
 
2. Financial Services Committee 
 
The authorities responsible for financial services are: 
    
(a) for China, CBRC, CIRC, CSRC and PBOC or their successors; and 
 
(b) for Korea, the Financial Services Commission and the Ministry of Strategy Finance or their 
successors. 
 
 
3. Government Sponsored Policy Implementing Entities 
 
The Parties confirm that the government sponsored policy implementing entities shall not be 
considered financial service suppliers for the purposes of this Chapter. 
 
 
4. Favourable Treatment 
 
(a)  The Parties shall endeavour to, subject to prudential requirements and in accordance with 
respective laws and regulations, process expeditiously all applications made by financial 
service suppliers from both Parties, respectively, for the operation in both Parties¡¯ territories 
to be applied on an equitable, non-discriminatory and good faith basis, as and when such 
applications are received. 
 
(b)  The Parties shall endeavour to ensure financial service suppliers from both Parties 
benefit from the further opening up of capital market to the extent permitted by the relevant 
policy set forth by the Parties. 
 
 
 
 
 

                                   - 92 - 
 
 
                               CHAPTER 10 
                         TELECOMMUNICATIONS 
 
 
Article 10.1: Scope  
 
1.   This Chapter shall apply to measures adopted or maintained by a Party affecting trade 
in telecommunications services. 
 
2.   Except to ensure that enterprises operating broadcast stations and cable systems have 
continued access to and use of public telecommunications networks or services, this Chapter 
shall not apply to any measure relating to broadcast or cable distribution of radio or television 
programming. 
 
3.   Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to: 
 
      (a)  require a Party to compel any enterprise to establish, construct, acquire, lease, 
           operate, or provide telecommunications networks or services not offered to the 
           public generally; or 
 
      (b)  require a Party to compel any enterprise exclusively engaged in the broadcast 
           or cable distribution of radio or television programming to make available its 
           broadcast or cable facilities as a public telecommunications network. 
           
4.     Nothing in this Chapter shall be interpreted as creating additional commitments other 
than those under Annex 8-A (Schedule of Specific Commitments) of Chapter 8 (Trade in 
Services). 
      
      
Article 10.2: Relation to Other Chapters 
 
In the event of any inconsistency between this Chapter and another Chapter, this Chapter 
shall prevail to the extent of the inconsistency. 
 
                                      
  Section A: Access to and Use of Public Telecommunications Networks or Services 
 
 
Article 10.3: Access and Use  
 
1.   Each Party shall ensure that service suppliers of the other Party have access to and use 
of any public telecommunications network or service, including leased circuits, offered in its 
territory or across its borders on a timely basis, and on reasonable and non-discriminatory 
terms and conditions, including as set out in paragraphs 2 through 6. 
 
2.   Each Party shall ensure that service suppliers of the other Party are permitted to: 
 
     (a)  purchase or lease, and attach terminal or other equipment that interfaces with a 
          public telecommunications network; 
                                   - 93 - 
 
 
 
     (b)  provide services to individual or multiple end-users over owned or leased 
          circuits;  
 
     (c)  connect owned or leased circuits with public telecommunications networks or 
          services in the territory, or across the borders, of that Party, or with circuits 
          leased or owned by another service supplier;  
 
     (d)  perform switching, signalling, processing, and conversion functions; and 
 
     (e)  use operating protocols of their choice in the supply of any service. 
       
3.   Each Party shall ensure that service suppliers of the other Party may use public 
telecommunications networks or services for the movement of information in its territory or 
across its borders in accordance with the laws and regulations of the Party, including for 
intra-corporate communications, and for access to information contained in databases or 
otherwise stored in machine-readable form in the territory of either Party or any non-Party 
which is a party to the WTO Agreement. 
 
4.   Notwithstanding paragraph 3, a Party may take such measures as are necessary to: 
 
    (a)   ensure the security and confidentiality of messages; and 
 
     (b)  protect personal information of end-users of public telecommunications 
          networks or services, 
 
provided that such measures are not applied in a manner that would constitute a means of 
arbitrary or unjustifiable discrimination or a disguised restriction on trade in services. 
 
5.   Each Party shall ensure that no condition is imposed on access to and use of public 
telecommunications networks or services, other than as necessary to: 
 
     (a)  safeguard the public service responsibilities of suppliers of public 
          telecommunications networks or services, in particular their ability to make their 
          networks or services available to the public generally; or 
 
     (b)  protect the technical integrity of public telecommunications networks or 
     services. 
 
6.   Provided that they satisfy the criteria set out in paragraph 5, conditions for access to 
and use of public telecommunications networks or services may include: 
      
     (a)  a requirement to use specified technical interfaces, including interface protocols, 
          for interconnection with such networks or services; 
      
     (b)  requirements, where necessary, for the inter-operability of such networks or 
          services; and 
           
     (c)  type approval of terminal or other equipment which interfaces with the network 
                                   - 94 - 
 
 
          and technical requirements relating to the attachment of such equipment to such 
          networks. 
 
 
  Section B: Obligations Relating to Interconnection Provided by Suppliers of Public 
                   Telecommunications Networks or Services 
                                      
 
Article 10.4: Interconnection 
 
1.   (a)  Each Party shall ensure that suppliers of public telecommunications networks or 
          services in its territory provide, directly or indirectly, interconnection with 
          suppliers of public telecommunications networks or services of the other Party, 
          which have obtained licenses in accordance with the laws and regulations of the 
          Party.  The rates, terms and conditions of such interconnection will generally 
          be determined through commercial negotiation between the service suppliers 
          concerned, in accordance with the laws and regulations of the Party. 
 
     (b)  In carrying out subparagraph (a), each Party shall ensure that suppliers of public 
          telecommunications networks or services in its territory take reasonable steps to 
          protect the confidentiality of commercially sensitive information of, or relating 
          to, suppliers and end-users of public telecommunications networks or services 
          and only use such information for the purpose of providing these services.  
 
2.   Each Party shall ensure that major suppliers in its territory provide interconnection for 
the facilities and equipment of suppliers of public telecommunications networks or services 
of the other Party, which have obtained licenses in accordance with the laws and regulations 
of the Party: 
 
     (a)  at any technically feasible point in the major supplier¡¯s network; 
 
     (b)  under non-discriminatory terms, conditions (including technical standards and 
          specifications) and rates;  
 
     (c)  of a quality no less favourable than that provided by the major supplier for its 
          own like services, for like services of non-affiliated service suppliers, or for its 
          subsidiaries or other affiliates; 
      
     (d)  in a timely fashion, and on terms and conditions (including technical standards 
          and specifications), and at cost-oriented rates, that are transparent, reasonable, 
          having regard to economic feasibility, and sufficiently unbundled so that the 
          suppliers seeking interconnection need not pay for network components or 
          facilities that they do not require for the service to be provided; and  
 
     (e)  on request, at points in addition to the network termination points offered to the 
          majority of users, subject to charges that reflect the cost of construction of 
          necessary additional facilities. 
 
3.   Each Party shall ensure that suppliers of public telecommunications networks or 
                                   - 95 - 
 
 
services of the other Party may interconnect their facilities and equipment with those of major 
suppliers in its territory in accordance with at least one of the following options:  
      
     (a)  a reference interconnection offer or another standard interconnection offer 
          containing the rates, terms, and conditions that the major supplier offers 
          generally to suppliers of public telecommunications networks or services; 
 
     (b)  the terms and conditions of an existing interconnection agreement; or 
 
     (c)  a negotiation of a new interconnection agreement. 
 
4.   Each Party shall ensure that applicable procedures for interconnection negotiations 
with major suppliers in its territory are made publicly available. 
 
5.   Each Party shall ensure that major suppliers in its territory may be required to file 
interconnection agreements with the Party¡¯s telecommunications regulatory body. 
 
6.   Each Party shall ensure, where interconnection is provided under paragraph 3(a), that 
the rates, terms and conditions are made publicly available. 
       
 
Article 10.5: Submarine Cable Systems  
 
Where a supplier of telecommunications networks or services operates a submarine cable 
system to provide public telecommunications networks or services, the Party in whose 
territory the supplier is located shall ensure that such supplier accords the suppliers of public 
telecommunication networks or services of the other Party reasonable and non-discriminatory 
treatment with respect to access23 to that submarine cable system (including landing facilities) 
in its territory, in accordance with the laws and regulations of the Party. 
       
                                      
      Section C: Additional Obligations Relating to Major Suppliers of Public 
                   Telecommunications Networks or Services 
 
 
Article 10.6: Competitive Safeguards 
 
1. Each Party shall maintain appropriate measures for the purposes of preventing suppliers 
of public telecommunications networks or services that, alone or together, are a major 
supplier in its territory from engaging in or continuing anti-competitive practices. 
 
2.   The anti-competitive practices referred to in paragraph 1 include, in particular: 
 
     (a)  engaging in anti-competitive cross-subsidisation; 
                                                 
23 For greater certainty: 1) access to submarine cable landing facilities is subject to capacity; and 2) with respect to access 
for suppliers of public telecommunications networks or services of the other Party that do not own facilities in the territory of 
the Party, a Party may comply with this provision by ensuring access to submarine cable systems through facilities leased 
from, or public telecommunications services provided by, a supplier of public telecommunications networks or services 
licensed in its territory. 
                                   - 96 - 
 
 
 
     (b)  using information obtained from competitors with anti-competitive results;  
 
     (c)  not making available, on a timely basis, to suppliers of public 
          telecommunications networks or services, technical information about essential 
          facilities and commercially relevant information that are necessary for them to 
          provide services; and  
       
     (d)  pricing services in a manner that is likely to unreasonably restrict competition, 
          including predatory pricing. 
 
 
                          Section D: Other Measures 
 
 
Article 10.7: Independent Regulatory Bodies  
 
1.   Each Party shall ensure that its telecommunications regulatory body is separate from 
and functionally independent of any supplier of public telecommunications networks or 
services.  To this end, each Party shall ensure that its telecommunications regulatory body 
does not own equity24 or maintain an operating or management role in any such supplier. 
 
2.   Each Party shall ensure that the decisions and procedures of its telecommunications 
regulatory body are impartial with respect to all market participants25 and shall be made and 
implemented on a timely basis.   
 
 
Article 10.8: Universal Service 
 
Each Party shall administer any universal service obligation that it maintains in a transparent, 
non-discriminatory, and competitively neutral manner and shall ensure that its universal 
service obligation is not more burdensome than necessary for the kind of universal service 
that it has defined. 
 
 
Article 10.9: Licensing Process 
 
1.   When a Party requires a supplier of public telecommunications networks or services to 
have a licence, the Party shall make publicly available: 
 
     (a)  all the licensing criteria and procedures it applies; 
 
     (b)  the period it normally requires to reach a decision concerning an application for 
          a licence; and 
                                                 
24 For greater certainty, this paragraph shall not prohibit a government entity of a Party other than the telecommunications 
regulatory body from owning equity in a supplier of telecommunications services. 
 
25  For  greater  certainty,  the  term  ¡°market  participants¡±  includes  service  suppliers  seeking  to  participate  in  the 
telecommunications market. 
                                   - 97 - 
 
 
      
     (c)   the terms and conditions of all licences in effect. 
 
2.   Each Party shall ensure that, on request, an applicant receives the reasons for the 
denial of, revocation of, refusal to renew, or imposition of conditions on, a licence.  
 
 
Article 10.10: Allocation and Use of Scarce Telecommunications Resources 
 
1.   Each Party shall administer its procedures for the allocation and use of scarce 
telecommunications resources, including frequencies, numbers, and rights-of-way, in an 
objective, timely, transparent, and non-discriminatory manner.  
 
2.   Each Party shall make publicly available the current state of allocated frequency bands 
related to telecommunication service (especially public telecommunication service), but shall 
not be required to provide detailed identification of frequencies allocated or assigned for 
specific government uses. 
 
3.   For greater certainty, a Party¡¯s measures allocating and assigning spectrum and 
managing frequency are not measures that are per se inconsistent with Chapters 8 (Trade in 
Services) and 12 (Investment).  Accordingly, each Party shall retain the right to establish 
and apply spectrum and frequency management policies that may have the effect of limiting 
the number of suppliers of public telecommunications networks or services, provided that it 
does so in a manner consistent with other provisions of this Agreement.  This includes the 
ability to allocate frequency bands, taking into account current and future needs.  
 
4.   Each Party shall endeavour to allocate and assign spectrum for non-government 
telecommunications services in a transparent manner that considers the overall public interest, including 
the encouragement of the economically efficient use of the spectrum and competition among suppliers 
of telecommunications services, recognising that a Party may encourage such activities through a 
variety of means, including through administrative incentive pricing, auctions, unlicensed use, or 
inviting for bidding, etc.  
 
 
Article 10.11: Enforcement 
 
1.   Each Party shall provide its telecommunications regulatory body with the authority to enforce 
the Party¡¯s measures relating to the obligations in Articles 10.3 through 10.6. 
 
2.   Such authority shall include the ability to impose, or seek from administrative or judicial bodies, 
effective sanctions, which may include financial penalties, or revocation of licences, etc. 
 
 
Article 10.12: Resolution of Telecommunications Disputes  
 
Further to Articles 18.3 (Administrative Proceedings) and 18.4 (Review and Appeal), each 
Party shall ensure that:  
 
Recourse  
                                   - 98 - 
 
 
      
     (a)  (i)   suppliers of public telecommunications networks or services may have 
                recourse to a telecommunications regulatory body or other relevant body 
                of the Party in its territory to resolve disputes between suppliers of 
                public telecommunications networks or services on a timely basis 
                regarding measures relating to matters in Articles 10.3 through 10.6;  
 
          (ii)  suppliers of public telecommunications networks or services of the other 
                Party, which have obtained licenses in accordance with the laws and 
                regulations of the Party, that have requested interconnection with a major 
                supplier in the Party¡¯s territory may have recourse, within a reasonable 
                and publicly specified period after the supplier requests interconnection, 
                to a telecommunications regulatory body or other relevant body to 
                resolve disputes regarding the terms, conditions, and rates for 
                interconnection with such major supplier; and 
 
Judicial Review 
 
     (b)   any service supplier whose legally-protected interests are adversely affected by a 
           determination or decision of the Party¡¯s telecommunications regulatory body may obtain 
           review of the determination or decision by an impartial and independent judicial 
           authority of the Party according to the laws of the Party.  Neither Party shall permit the 
           making of an application for judicial review to constitute grounds for non-compliance 
           with the determination or decision of the telecommunications regulatory body, unless 
           the relevant judicial body otherwise determines. 
 
 
Article 10.13: Transparency  
 
Further to Article 18.1 (Publication), each Party shall ensure that: 
 
     (a)  regulatory decisions, including the basis for such decisions, of its 
          telecommunications regulatory body are promptly published or otherwise made 
          available to all interested persons;  
 
     (b)  its measures relating to public telecommunications networks or services are 
          made publicly available, including: 
 
          (i)   tariffs and other terms and conditions of service; 
                       
          (ii)  specifications of technical interfaces; 
 
          (iii) conditions for attaching terminal or other equipment to public 
                telecommunications networks; 
 
          (iv)  licensing requirements and other related measures, if any;  
            
          (v)   the amendment and adoption of measures concerning technologies or 
                standards affecting access and use; and 
                                   - 99 - 
 
 
 
          (vi)  procedures relating to judicial or administrative review; and 
 
     (c)  each Party shall ensure that its telecommunications regulatory body or other 
          relevant body provides, on the request by a supplier of public 
          telecommunications networks or services of the other Party, a written 
          explanation of reasons for any decision that denies access of the kind specified 
          in Article 10.4. 
                               
 
Article 10.14: Measures Concerning Technologies and Standards26 
 
1.    Neither Party shall prevent suppliers of public telecommunications networks or services 
or value-added services from having the flexibility to choose the technologies that they use to 
supply their services.  
 
2.    Notwithstanding paragraph 1, a Party may apply a measure that limits the technologies 
or standards that a supplier of public telecommunications networks or services or value-added 
services may use to supply its services, provided that the measure is designed to satisfy a 
legitimate public policy objective and is not prepared, adopted or applied in a manner that 
creates unnecessary obstacles to trade.27 
 
 
Article 10.15: Consultation with Industry  
 
Each Party shall facilitate consultation with suppliers of public telecommunications networks 
or services of the other Party operating in its territory in the development of 
telecommunications policy, regulations and standards. 
          
          
Article 10.16: International Roaming Rates 
 
The Parties shall encourage their respective telecommunications service suppliers 
to reduce the wholesale rates for international mobile roaming between the Parties, with a view
 to reducing international mobile roaming rates. 
 
 
Article 10.17: Relation to International Organisations 
 
The Parties recognise the importance of international standards for global compatibility and 
inter-operability of telecommunications networks and services and undertake to promote such 
standards through the work of relevant international organisations, including the International 
                                                 
26 For greater certainty, except for paragraph 1, this Article shall not apply to measures adopted before the date of entry into 
force of this Agreement. 
 
27 For greater certainty: 1) a Party retains the right to define its own legitimate public policy objectives; and 2) 
whenever  such a  measure is  based on relevant  international standards, it shall be rebuttably presumed  not to 
create unnecessary obstacles to trade. 
 
                                   - 100 - 
 
 
Telecommunication Union and the International Organization for Standardization. 
 
 
                            Section E: Definitions 
 
 
Article 10.18: Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
commercial mobile services means public telecommunications services supplied through 
mobile wireless means; 
 
cost-oriented means based on cost, and may include a reasonable profit, and may involve 
different cost methodologies for different facilities or services; 
 
end-user means a final consumer of or subscriber to a public telecommunications service, 
including a service supplier other than a supplier of public telecommunications services;  
 
essential facilities means facilities of a public telecommunications network or service that:  
       
      (a)  are exclusively or predominantly provided by a single or limited number of 
           suppliers; and  
             
      (b)  cannot feasibly be economically or technically substituted in order to provide a 
           service; 
 
interconnection means linking with suppliers providing public telecommunications services 
in order to allow the users of one supplier to communicate with users of another supplier and 
to access services provided by another supplier; 
 
leased circuits means telecommunications facilities between two or more designated points 
that are set aside for the dedicated use of, or availability to, a user or users; 
 
major supplier means a supplier of public telecommunications services that has the ability to 
materially affect the terms of participation (having regard to price and supply) in the relevant 
market for public telecommunications services as a result of: 
 
      (a)  control over essential facilities; or  
 
      (b)  use of its position in the market;  
 
non-discriminatory means treatment no less favourable than that accorded to any other user 
of like public telecommunications networks or services in like circumstances; 
      
personal information means any information transmitted by electromagnetic means that 
identifies a natural person or is related to personal privacy; 
 
public telecommunications network means telecommunications infrastructure used to 
                                   - 101 - 
 
 
provide public telecommunications services; 
 
public telecommunications networks or services means public telecommunications 
networks, or public telecommunications services, or public telecommunications networks and 
services; 
 
public telecommunications service means any telecommunications service that is offered to 
the public generally.   Such services may include, inter alia, telephone and data transmission 
typically involving customer-supplied information between two or more points without any 
end-to-end change in the form or content of the customer¡¯s information, and excludes 
value-added services; 
 
service supplier of the other Party means a person of the other Party that seeks to supply or 
supplies a service, including a supplier of public telecommunications networks or services; 
 
telecommunications means the transmission and reception of signals by any electromagnetic 
means; 
 
telecommunications regulatory body means any body or bodies at the central level of 
government responsible for the regulation of telecommunications; 
 
user means an end-user or a supplier of public telecommunications networks or services; and 
 
value-added services means services that add value to telecommunications services through 
enhanced  functionality. For  China,  these are services  as  defined  in  Article  8  of  the 
Telecommunications  Regulation  of  the  People¡¯s  Republic  of  China,  and  Catalogue  of 
Telecommunications Business. For Korea, these are services as defined in Article 2.12 of the 
Telecommunications Business Act. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


                                   - 102 - 
 
 
                               CHAPTER 11 
                   MOVEMENT OF NATURAL PERSONS 
 
 
Article 11.1: Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter, 
 
immigration measure means any law, regulation, procedure, requirement or practice 
affecting the entry and exit, stay and residence of foreign nationals; 
 
natural person of a Party means a natural person of a Party as defined in Chapter 8 (Trade 
in Services); and 
 
temporary entry means entry by a natural person covered by this Chapter without the intent 
to establish permanent residence and for the purpose of engaging in activities which are 
clearly related to their respective business purposes.  
 
 
Article 11.2: General Principles 
       
1. This Chapter reflects the preferential trading relationship between the Parties, their mutual desire 
to facilitate temporary entry for a natural person on a reciprocal basis and to establish transparent 
criteria and procedures for temporary entry in accordance with Annex 11-A, and the need to ensure 
border security and to protect the domestic labour force and permanent employment in their respective 
territories. 
 
2. This Chapter shall not apply to measures affecting natural persons of a Party seeking access to 
the employment market of the other Party, nor shall it apply to measures regarding nationality, 
citizenship, residence, or employment on a permanent basis. 
 
 
Article 11.3: General Obligations 
 
1. A Party shall apply its measures related to this Chapter in accordance with Article 11.2 
and, in particular, shall expeditiously apply those measures so as to avoid unduly nullifying 
or impairing the benefits accruing to the other Party or delaying trade in goods or services or 
conduct of investment activities under this Agreement. 
 
2. Notwithstanding paragraph 1, nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to prevent a 
Party from applying measures to regulate the entry of natural persons into, or their temporary 
stay in, its territory, including those measures necessary to protect the integrity of, and to 
ensure the orderly movement of natural persons across its borders, provided that such 
measures are not applied in such a manner as to unduly nullify or impair the benefits accruing 
to the other Party or delay trade in goods or services or conduct of investment activities under 

                                   - 103 - 
 
 
this Agreement.28 
 
 
Article 11.4: Visa Facilitation 
 
1.  The Parties shall endeavour to facilitate the processes on the issuance and extension of 
visa. 
 
2.  The specific commitments on this Article are set out in Annex 11-B. 
 
 
Article 11.5: Grant of Temporary Entry 
 
1.     The Parties may make commitments in respect of temporary entry of natural person.  
Such commitments and the conditions governing them shall be inscribed in Annex 11-A. 
 
2. Where a Party makes a commitment under paragraph 1, that Party shall grant temporary 
entry of natural person of the other Party, as provided for in the commitment, provided that 
such natural person is otherwise qualified under all applicable immigration measures. 
 
3. A Party shall limit any fees for processing applications for temporary entry of natural 
persons so as not to unduly nullify or impair the benefits accruing to the other Party or delay 
trade in goods or services or conduct of investment activities under this Agreement and not to 
exceed the administrative costs normally rendered. 
 
4. The temporary entry granted pursuant to this Chapter shall not replace the requirements 
needed to carry out a profession or activity according to the specific laws and regulations in 
force in the territory of the Party authorizing the temporary entry. 
 
 
Article 11.6: Transparency 
 
1.  Further to Article 18.1 (Publication), each Party shall: 
 
     (a)    provide to the other Party such materials as will enable it to become 
            acquainted with its measures relating to this Chapter;  
       
     (b)    no later than six months after the date of entry into force of this Agreement, 
            prepare, publish, and make available in its own territory, and in the territory of 
            the other Party, explanatory material in a consolidated document regarding the 
            requirements for temporary entry under this Chapter including information on 
            applicable laws and regulations in such a manner as will enable natural 
            persons of the other Party to become acquainted with them; and  
       
     (c)    upon modifying or amending an immigration measure that affects the temporary entry 
            of natural persons, ensure that such modifications or amendments are promptly 
                                                 
28 The sole fact of requiring a visa for natural persons shall not be regarded as unduly nullifying or impairing the benefits 
accruing to the other Party or delaying trade in goods or services or conduct of investment activities under this Agreement. 
                                   - 104 - 
 
 
            published and made available in such a manner as will enable natural persons of the 
            other Party to become acquainted with them. 
 
2. Further to Article 18.1 (Publication), each Party shall establish or maintain appropriate 
mechanisms to respond to inquiries from interested persons regarding applications and procedures 
related to the temporary entry of natural person. 
          
3. On the request  of  the  applicant,  the  Party  shall  endeavor  to  provide,  without  undue  delay,  i
nformation  on  the  status  of  the  application  or  the  decision  about  the  application. 
 
 
 Article 11.7: Committee on Movement of Natural Persons 
 
1. The Parties hereby establish a Committee on Movement of Natural Persons (hereinafter 
referred to as the ¡°Committee¡±) comprising representatives of each Party including 
immigration officials, which shall meet on the request of either Party or the Joint 
Commission to consider any matter arising under this Chapter.  
 
2. The Committee¡¯s functions shall include: 
 
      (a) exchanging information on the relevant laws and regulations;  
       
      (b) identifying and recommending measures to facilitate movement of natural 
          persons between the Parties;  
       
      (c)  considering other issues with respect to movement of natural persons that a 
          Party has interest in; and 
       
      (d)     reviewing the implementation and operation of this Chapter. 
 
 
Article 11.8: Dispute Settlement 
 
1.    The relevant authorities of both Parties shall endeavour to favourably resolve any 
problems that may arise from the implementation and administration of this Chapter.   
 
2.    If both Parties cannot reach agreement with regard to any specific issues raised from 
the implementation and administration of this Chapter as provided for in paragraph 1, 
Chapter 20 (Dispute Settlement) shall apply to the issues. 
 
3.    A Party shall not initiate proceedings under Chapter 20 (Dispute Settlement) 
regarding a refusal to grant temporary entry under this Chapter unless: 
 
      (a)  the matter involves a pattern of practice; and 
 
     (b)   the natural person has exhausted the available administrative remedies 
           regarding the particular matter. 
                                   - 105 - 
 
 
 
4.    The remedies referred to in subparagraph 3(b) shall be deemed to be exhausted if a 
final determination in the matter has not been issued by the competent authority within one 
year of the institution of an administrative proceeding, and the failure to issue a determination 
is not attributable to delay caused by the natural person. 
 
 
Article 11.9: Relation to Other Chapters   
 
1. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to impose any obligation on a Party regarding its 
immigration measures, except as specifically identified in this Chapter, Chapters 1 (Initial Provisions 
and Definitions), 20 (Dispute Settlement), 21 (Exceptions), and 22 (Final Provisions), and Articles 18.1 
(Publication) through 18.3 (Administrative Proceedings). 
 
2. Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to impose obligations or commitments with 
respect to other Chapters and their Annexes of this Agreement. 
 


                                   - 106 - 
 
 
                               ANNEX 11-A 
                        SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS 
                                      
                                      
                   Section A: China¡¯s Specific Commitments 
 
1. China requires a natural person of Korea seeking temporary entry into its territory under 
the provisions of this Chapter and this Annex to obtain appropriate immigration formalities 
prior to entry. 
 
Business visitors and services salespersons of Korea 
 
2.  Entry and temporary stay shall be granted to a business visitor and a services salesperson 
of Korea for a period of not more than 90 days without requiring that person to obtain an 
employment authorization, provided that the business visitor and the services salesperson 
otherwise complies with immigration measures applicable to temporary entry.  
 
3.  A business visitor of Korea means a natural person of Korea who is:  
 
     (a)   a service seller, who is a sales representative of a service supplier of Korea and is 
           seeking temporary entry into China for the purpose of negotiating the sale of services 
           for that service supplier, where such representative will not be engaged in making 
           direct sales to the general public or in supplying services directly;  
 
     (b)   an investor of Korea, or a duly authorized representative of an investor of Korea, 
           seeking temporary entry into China to establish, expand, monitor, or dispose of a 
           commercial presence of that investor; or 
         
     (c)   a goods seller who is seeking temporary entry into the territory of China to negotiate 
           for the sale of goods where such negotiations do not involve direct sales to the general 
           public. 
         
4.  A Services Salesperson of Korea means a natural person of Korea not based in the 
territory of China and receiving no remuneration from a source located within China, and 
who is engaged in activities related to representing a service supplier for the purpose of 
negotiation for the sale of services of that supplier where:  
 
     (a)   such sales are not directly made to the general public and; 
    
     (b)   the salesperson is not engaged in supplying the service. 
 
Intra-Corporate Transferees (ICT) of Korea 
 
5.  Entry and temporary stay shall be granted to managers, executives and specialists defined 
as senior employees of a Korean company, who are dispatched to work in representative 
                                   - 107 - 
 
 
office, branch, or subsidiary in the territory of China for a period of up to three years, which 
may be extended for subsequent periods provided the conditions on which it is based remain 
in effect, provided that such person otherwise complies with immigration measures 
applicable to temporary entry.  
 
6.  Entry and temporary stay shall be granted to managers, executives and specialists defined 
as senior employees of a Korean company, being engaged in the foreign invested enterprises 
in the territory of China for conducting business, for a period of up to three years.  The 
aforementioned entry and temporary stay may be extended for subsequent periods provided 
the conditions on which it is based remain in effect, provided that such person otherwise 
complies with immigration measures applicable to temporary entry.  
 
7.  ICT means a manager, an executive, or a specialist, who is an employee of a service 
supplier or investor of Korea with a commercial presence in China; 
 
     (a)   manager means a natural person within an organization who primarily directs the 
           organisation or a department or subdivision of the organisation, supervises and 
           controls the work of other supervisory, professional or managerial employees, has the 
           authority to hire and fire or take other personnel actions (such as promotion or leave 
           authorisation), and exercises discretionary authority over day-to-day operations; 
 
     (b)   executive means a natural person within an organization who primarily directs the 
           management of the organisation, exercises wide latitude in decision making, and 
           receives only general supervision or direction from higher level executives, the board 
           of directors or stockholders of the business.  An executive would not directly perform 
           tasks related to the actual provision of the service nor the operation of an investment; 
           and 
 
     (c)   specialist means a natural person within an organization who possesses knowledge at 
           an advanced level of technical expertise, and who possesses proprietary knowledge of 
           the organisation¡¯s service, research equipment, techniques or management. 
 
Contractual Services Suppliers (CSS) of Korea 
 
8.  Entry and temporary stay shall be granted for a period up to one year or the period of the 
contract, whichever is less, to a natural person of Korea who is seeking to provide services as 
a contractual service supplier in a profession as set out in Appendix 11-A-1, provided that 
such person otherwise complies with immigration measures applicable to temporary entry. 
 
9.  A contractual service supplier means a natural person of Korea who:  
 
     (a)   is an employee of a service supplier or an enterprise of Korea, whether a company, 
           partnership or firm, who enters into China temporarily in order to perform a service 


                                   - 108 - 
 
 
           pursuant to a contract(s) between his or her employer and a service consumer(s) in 
           China; 
    
     (b)   is employed by a company, partnership or firm of Korea, which has no commercial 
           presence in China where the service is to be supplied; 
 
     (c)   receives his or her remuneration from that employer; and 
    
     (d)   has appropriate educational and professional qualifications relevant to the service to 
           be supplied. 
 
10.    Labour market testing may be required as a condition for temporary entry of CSS, or 
numerical restriction may be imposed relating to temporary entry for CSS. 
 
 
                   Section B: Korea¡¯s Specific Commitments 
 
 
1. Korea requires a natural person of China seeking temporary entry into its territory under 
the provisions of this Chapter and this Annex to obtain appropriate immigration formalities 
prior to entry. 
 
2. Korea may refuse to grant temporary entry to a natural person of China who is likely to 
be involved in any labour dispute29 that is in progress and adversely affect the settlement of 
such labour dispute. 
 
 
Business visitors of China 
 
3.  Entry and temporary stay shall be granted to a business visitor of China for a period of 
not more than 90 days without requiring that person to obtain an employment authorization, 
provided that the business visitor otherwise complies with immigration measures applicable 
to temporary entry.  
 
4.  A business visitor of China means a natural person of China:  
 
   (a)  who is:  
 
           (i)   a service seller who enters the territory of Korea for the purpose of 
                 negotiating sale of services or entering into agreements for such sale;  
       
           (ii)  seeking temporary entry for negotiating sale of goods, where such 
                 negotiations do not involve direct sales to the general public; or  
            

                                                 
29 Labour dispute means a dispute between a union and employer related to terms and conditions of employment. 
                                   - 109 - 
 
 
           (iii)  an investor or an employee of an investor, who is a manager, executive 
                 or specialist as defined in paragraph 6, seeking temporary entry to 
                 establish an investment; and  
 
     (b)   whose primary source of remuneration for the proposed business activity, 
           principal place of business and the actual place of accrual of profits, at least 
           predominantly, remain outside Korea. 
 
Intra-Corporate Transferees (ICT) of China 
 
5.  Entry and temporary stay shall be granted for a period of up to three years, which may be 
extended for subsequent periods provided the conditions on which it is based remain in effect, 
to an  ICT of China, provided that such person otherwise complies with immigration 
measures applicable to temporary entry. 
 
6.     ICT means an employee of a company that supplies services through subsidiaries, 
branches, or designated affiliates established in the territory of Korea and who has been so 
employed for a period not less than one year immediately preceding the date of the 
application for temporary entry, and who is an executive, manager, or specialist as defined 
below:  
 
     (a)   executive means a natural person within an organisation who primarily directs 
           the management of the organisation, exercises wide latitude in 
           decision-making, and receives general supervision or direction from 
           higher-level executives, the board of directors, or stockholders of the business.  
           An executive would not directly perform tasks related to the actual supply of a 
           service or services of the organisation;  
 
     (b)   manager means a natural person within an organisation who primarily directs 
           the organisation or a department of the organisation; supervises and controls 
           the work of other supervisory, professional or managerial employees; has the 
           authority to hire and fire or recommend hiring, firing, or other personnel 
           actions; and exercises discretionary authority over day-to-day operations.  
           This does not include a first-line supervisor, unless the employees supervised 
           are professionals, nor does this include an employee who primarily performs 
           tasks necessary for the supply of the service; and 
 
     (c)   specialist means a natural person within an organisation who possesses 
           knowledge at an advanced level of continued expertise and proprietary 
           knowledge on the services, research, equipment, techniques, or management of 
           the organisation. 
 
Contractual Services Suppliers (CSS) of China 
 
7.  Entry and temporary stay shall be granted for a period up to one year or the period of the 
contract, whichever is less, to a natural person of China who is seeking to provide services as 
a contractual service supplier in a profession as set out in Appendix 11-A-1, provided that 
such person otherwise complies with immigration measures applicable to temporary entry. 
 
                                   - 110 - 
 
 
8.  A contractual service supplier means a natural person of China who:  
 
     (a)   is employed or engaged in a specialised occupation that requires theoretical 
           and practical application of specialised knowledge;  
 
     (b)   possesses the necessary academic and professional qualifications and 
           professionally-qualified competency-based experience to perform an activity 
           in the sector relevant to the service to be provided in accordance with the laws, 
           regulations or requirements of Korea;  
 
     (c)   is engaged in the supply of a contracted service as an employee of an 
           enterprise that has no commercial presence in Korea, where the enterprise 
           obtains a service contract, for a period not exceeding one year, from an 
           enterprise of Korea, who is the final consumer of the services supplied.  The 
           contract shall comply with the laws and regulations of Korea; 
 
     (d)   has been an employee of the enterprise for a period of not less than one year 
           immediately preceding the date of application for admission; and  
 
     (e)   is required to receive no remuneration from an enterprise located in Korea.  
 
9.  Labour market testing may be required as a condition for temporary entry of CSS, or 
numerical restriction may be imposed relating to temporary entry for CSS. 
                         


                                   - 111 - 
 
 
 
                             APPENDIX 11-A-1 
               LIST OF CONTRACTUAL SERVICE SUPPLIERS 
 
 
For China: 
 
The services provided by CSS are only limited to the specific sectors as follows: 
 
   (1) architectural services; 
 
   (2) engineering services; 
 
   (3) integrated engineering services 
 
   (4)  urban planning services (except general urban planning) 
 
   (5)  computer and related services; 
 
   (6)  construction and related engineering services; 
 
   (7) education services: CSS shall acquire a bachelor¡¯s degree or above, receive 
appropriate professional titles or certificates, and have at least two-year professional work 
experience;  a Chinese party involved in a contract shall be a juridical person which has the 
function of providing education service; and 
 
      (8)  tourism services. 
      
 
For Korea: 
 
 
1.  Services related to the installation, management or repair of industrial equipment or 
machinery, excluding construction and power generation equipment, for an enterprise in 
Korea which purchases the equipment or the machinery from an enterprise employing the 
natural person located in China;  
 
2. Consultancy services related to technical knowledge or skill concerning the natural 
sciences applied to information technology, e-business, biotechnology, nanotechnology, 
digital electronics, or the environmental industry;  
 
3.  Consultancy services for foreign accounting standards and auditing, training of CPAs, 
transfer of auditing technology and exchange of information related to accounting, auditing 
and bookkeeping services, to a Korean accounting firm or office through a membership 
contract;  
 
4.  Architectural services subject to collaboration with architects registered under Korean 
law in the form of joint contracts;  
 
                                   - 112 - 
 
 
5.  Management consulting services; and  
 
6.  The following professional engineering services:  
 
      (a)   consultancy services related to the installation of computer hardware;  
 
      (b)   software R&D-based implementation services;  
 
      (c)   data management services;  
 
      (d)   data system services; and  
 
      (e)   specialty engineering design services for automobiles. 
                         


                                   - 113 - 
 
 
 
                               ANNEX 11-B 
                           VISA FACILITATION 
                                      
 
1. With a view to ensuring stability and convenience of ICT30 and investors of the other 
Party, a Party shall take commitments in applying its relevant laws and regulations as 
follows:  
      
   For China,  
 
       China commits to expand the initial stay from one year to two years under its Work 
Certificate and Working Resident Permit system with regard to ICTs of Korea who are 
employed in China, or investors of Korea with established business in the territory of China, 
and who are engaged with its operation. 
 
   China commits to facilitate the procedure for the extension of stay under its Work 
Certificate and Working Resident Permit system. 
   
       For Korea,  
 
       Korea commits to expand the initial stay from one year to two years under its Alien 
Card system with regard to ICTs of China who are employed in Korea or investors of China 
with established business in the territory of Korea, and who are engaged with its operation. 
       
       Korea commits to facilitate the procedure for the extension of stay under its Alien 
Card system. 
      
 
2.     Under the framework of Agreement on the Simplification of Visa Procedures and the 
Issuance of Multiple Entry Visas Between the Government of the People¡¯s Republic of China 
and the Government of the Republic of Korea signed at Beijing November 12, 1998, and 
recognizing possible amendment of the above-mentioned agreement, both Parties commits to 
facilitate the issuance of multiple entry visa for business visitors. 
 
       For China,  
 
       China commits to issue multiple entry visa valid for one year and for a stay not 
exceeding thirty days each time to eligible applicants.  China confirms that its practice is to 
issue aforesaid multiple entry visa from the second application, to the personnel who visits 
China and then come to Korea without unlawful record in previous cases.  
 
       For Korea,  
                                                 
30 ICT means:  
 
   i)        with respect to China, the ICT defined in Paragraph 7 of the Section B under the Annex 11-A; and   
    
   ii)       with respect to Korea, the ICT defined in Paragraph 6 of the Section A under the Annex 11-A. 
     
                                   - 114 - 
 
 
 
       Pursuant to relevant regulations of Ministry of Justice of Korea, Korea commits to 
issue multiple entry visa valid for one year and for a stay not exceeding thirty days each time 
to eligible applicants.  Korea confirms that its practice is to issue aforesaid multiple entry 
visa from the second application, to the personnel who visits Korea and then comes China 
without unlawful record in previous cases. 
                         


                                   - 115 - 
 
 
 
                               ANNEX 11-C 
    PREFERENTIAL ARRANGEMENT FOR INVESTMENT FACILITATION 
                                      
 
Based on the needs of each Party, the Parties should encourage, through setting up a 
preferential arrangement, mutual investment and movement of personnel in accordance with 
each other¡¯s respective domestic laws and regulations, and without prejudice to its domestic 
employment market. 
 
 
The scope of personnel should include business visitor, contractual service supplier, and ICT.   
Respective government ministries shall engage in and work out the aforementioned 
arrangement accordingly.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                   - 116 - 
 
 
                               CHAPTER 12 
                              INVESTMENT 
                                      
                                      
Article 12.1: Definitions 
 
For the purposes of this Chapter31: 
 
covered investment means, with respect to a Party, an investment in its territory of an 
investor of the other Party that is in existence as of the date of entry into force of this 
Agreement or established, acquired, or expanded thereafter; 
 
enterprise of a Party32 means any legal person or any other entity constituted or organized 
under the applicable laws and regulations of that Party, whether or not for profit, and whether 
private or government-owned or controlled, and includes a company, corporation, trust, 
partnership, sole proprietorship, joint venture, association or organization; 
 
freely usable currencies means freely usable currencies as defined under the Articles of the 
Agreement of the International Monetary Fund; 
 
ICSID Additional Facility Rules means the Rules Governing the Additional Facility for the 
Administration of Proceedings by the Secretariat of the International Centre for Settlement of 
Investment Disputes; 
 
ICSID Convention means the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between 
States and Nationals of Other States, done at Washington, March 18, 1965; 
 
investment activities means management, conduct, operation, maintenance, use, enjoyment 
and sale or other disposition of investments;  
 
investments33 means every kind of asset that an investor owns or controls, directly or 
indirectly, which has the characteristics of an investment, such as the commitment of capital 
or other resources, the expectation of gain or profit, or the assumption of risk.  Forms that 
investments may take include:  
       
       (i)    an enterprise and a branch of an enterprise; 

       (ii)   shares, stocks or other forms of equity participation in an enterprise, 
              including rights derived therefrom; 

                                                 
31 It is understood that measures adopted or maintained by local governments are measures 
adopted or maintained by a Party. 
 
32 For greater certainty, a branch of an enterprise is not, in and by itself, deemed to be an 
enterprise. 
 
33 Investments also include the amounts yielded by investments, in particular, profit, interest, capital gains, dividends, 
royalties and fees.   A change in the form in which assets are invested does not affect their character as investments. 
 
                                   - 117 - 
 
 
       (iii)  bonds, debentures, loans and other forms of debt, including rights derived 
              therefrom; 

       (iv)   rights under contracts, including turnkey, construction, management, 
              production or revenue-sharing contracts; 

       (v)    claims to money and claims to any performance under contract having a 
              financial value associated with investment; 

       (vi)   intellectual property rights, including copyrights and related rights, patent 
              rights and rights relating to utility models, trademarks, industrial designs, 
              layout-designs of integrated circuits, new varieties of plants, trade names, 
              indications of source or geographical indications and undisclosed 
              information; 

       (vii)  rights conferred pursuant to laws and regulations or contracts such as 
              concessions, licenses, authorizations and permits; and 

       (viii) any other tangible and intangible, movable and immovable property, and 
              any related property rights, such as leases, mortgages, liens and pledges; 

investor of a Party means a natural person or an enterprise of a Party that makes investments 
in the territory of the other Party; 
 
natural person of a Party means a natural person that has the nationality of that Party in 
accordance with its applicable laws and regulations; and 
 
UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules means the arbitration rules of the United Nations 
Commission on International Trade Law, as revised in 2010 or as subsequently agreed 
between the Parties. 
 
 
Article 12.2: Promotion and Protection of Investments 
 
1.    Each Party shall encourage and create favorable conditions for investors of the other 
Party to make investments in its territory. 
 
2.    Each Party shall, subject to its rights to exercise powers in accordance with the 
applicable laws and regulations, including those with regard to foreign ownership and control, 
admit investment of investors of the other Party. 
 
 
Article 12.3: National Treatment 
 
1.    Each Party shall in its territory accord to investors of the other Party and to covered 
investment treatment no less favorable than that it accords in like circumstances to its own 
investors and their investments with respect to investment activities. 
 
2.    Paragraph 1 shall not apply to non-conforming measures, if any, existing at the date of 
entry into force of this Chapter maintained by each Party under its laws and regulations, or 
                                   - 118 - 
 
 
any amendment or modification to such measures, provided that the amendment or 
modification does not decrease the conformity of the measure as it existed immediately 
before the amendment or modification.  Treatment granted to covered investment once 
admitted shall in no case be less favorable than that granted at the time when the original 
investment was made. 
 
3.     Each Party shall take, where applicable, all appropriate steps to progressively 
remove all the non-conforming measures referred to in paragraph 2. 
 
 
Article 12.4: Most-Favored-Nation Treatment34 
 
1. Each Party shall in its territory accord to investors of the other Party and to covered 
investments treatment no less favorable than that it accords in like circumstances to investors 
of any non-Party and to their investments with respect to investment activities and the matters 
relating to the admission of investment in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 12.2. 
    
2.  Paragraph 1 shall not be construed so as to oblige a Party to extend to investors of the 
other Party and covered investments any preferential treatment resulting from its membership 
of: 
 
      (a)    any customs union, free trade area, monetary union, similar international 
             agreement leading to such union or free trade area, or other forms of regional 
             economic cooperation; 
           
      (b)    any international agreement or arrangement for facilitating small scale trade 
             in border areas; or 
           
      (c)    any bilateral and multilateral international agreements involving aviation, 
             fishery and maritime matters including salvage. 
 
3.    It is understood that the treatment accorded to investors of any non-Party and to their 
investments as referred to in paragraph 1 does not include treatment accorded to investors of 
any non-Party and to their investments by provisions concerning the settlement of investment 
disputes between a Party and investors of any non-Party that are provided for in other 
international agreements. 
 
 
Article 12.5: Minimum Standard of Treatment35 
 
1.    Each Party shall accord to covered investments treatment in accordance with 
customary international law, including fair and equitable treatment and full protection and 
security. 
                                                 
34 For the purposes of this Article, the term ¡°non-Party¡± shall not include any separate customs territory within 
the meaning of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade or of the WTO Agreement that is a member of the 
World Trade Organization as of the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 
 
35 This Article shall be interpreted in accordance with Annex 12-A. 
 
                                   - 119 - 
 
       
       
      2.    For greater certainty, paragraph 1 prescribes the customary international law 
      minimum standard of treatment of aliens as the minimum standard of treatment to be afforded 
      to covered investments.   The concepts of ¡°fair and equitable treatment¡± and ¡°full protection 
      and security¡± do not require treatment in addition to or beyond that which is required by that 
      standard, and do not create additional substantive rights.  The obligation in paragraph 1 to 
      provide: 
             
      (a)  ¡°fair and equitable treatment¡± 36 includes the obligation not to deny justice in criminal, 
      civil, or administrative adjudicatory proceedings in accordance with the principle of due 
      process of law; and 
       
            (b)   ¡°full protection and security¡± requires each Party to provide the level of police 
                  protection required under customary international law. 
       
      3.    A determination that there has been a breach of another provision of this Agreement, 
      or of a separate international agreement, does not establish that there has been a breach of this 
      Article. 
       
      4.    Each Party shall accord to investors of the other Party, and to covered investments, 
      non-discriminatory treatment with respect to measures it adopts or maintains relating to 
      losses suffered by investments in its territory owing to war or other armed conflict, or revolt, 
      insurrection, riot, or other civil strife. 
       
      5.    Notwithstanding paragraph 4, if an investor of a Party, in the situations referred to in 
      paragraph 4, suffers a loss in the territory of the other Party resulting from: 
       
            (a)   requisitioning of its covered investment or part thereof by the latter¡¯s forces or 
                  authorities; or 
       
            (b)   destruction of its covered investment or part thereof by the latter¡¯s forces or 
                  authorities, which was not required by the necessity of the situation,  
       
      the latter Party shall provide the investor restitution, compensation, or both, as appropriate, 
      for such loss.  Any compensation shall be in accordance with Article12.9, mutatis mutandis. 
       
6.    Paragraph 4 does not apply to existing measures relating to subsidies or grants that would be 
      inconsistent with Article 12.3. 
 
       
      Article 12.6: Access to the Courts of Justice 
       
      Each Party shall in its territory accord to investors of the other Party treatment no less 
      favorable than that it accords in like circumstances to its own investors and investors of any 
      non-Party, with respect to access to the courts of justice and administrative tribunals and 
      agencies in all degrees of jurisdiction, both in pursuit and in defense of such investors¡¯ rights. 
       
                                                       
      36 Determination on fair and equitable treatment shall be based on adequate proof. 
                                         - 120 - 
       
       
       
      Article 12.7: Prohibition of Performance Requirements 
       
1.    The provisions of the Agreement on Trade-Related Investment Measures in Annex 1A to 
      WTO Agreement are incorporated into and made part of this Chapter, mutatis mutandis and 
      shall apply with respect to all covered investments under this Chapter. 
       
2.    Neither Party shall, in its territory, impose unreasonable or discriminatory measures on 
      covered investment by investors of the other Party concerning performance requirements on 
      export or transfer of technology. 
       
       
      Article 12.8: Transparency 
       
1.    Each Party shall promptly publish, or otherwise make publicly available, its laws, regulations, 
      administrative procedures and administrative rulings and judicial decisions of general 
      application as well as international agreements to which the Party is a party and which pertain 
      to or affect investment activities.  The Government of each Party shall make easily available 
      to the public, the names and addresses of the competent authorities responsible for such laws, 
      regulations, administrative procedures and administrative rulings.  
 
2.    When a Party introduces or changes its laws or regulations that significantly affect the 
      implementation and operation of this Chapter, the Party shall endeavor to provide a 
      reasonable interval between the time when such laws or regulations are published or made 
      publicly available and the time when they enter into force, except for those laws or 
      regulations involving national security, foreign exchange rates or monetary policies and other 
      laws or regulations the publication of which would impede law enforcement. 
 
      3.    Each Party shall, on the request by the other Party, within a reasonable period of time 
      and through existing bilateral channels, respond to specific questions from, and provide 
      information to, the latter Party with respect to any actual or proposed measure of the former 
      Party, which might materially affect the interests of the latter Party and its investors under 
      this Chapter. 
       
      4.    Each Party shall, in accordance with its laws and regulations: 
       
            (a)   make public in advance regulations of general application that affect any 
                  matter covered by this Chapter; and 
       
            (b)   provide a reasonable opportunity for comments by the public for those 
                  regulations related to investment and give consideration to those comments 
                  before adoption of such regulations. 
       
      5.    The provisions of this Article shall not be construed so as to oblige any Party to 
      disclose confidential information, the disclosure of which:  
       
            (a) would impede law enforcement; 
          
            (b) would be contrary to the public interest; or  
                                         - 121 - 
       
 
        
      (c) could prejudice privacy or legitimate commercial interests. 
 
 
Article 12.9: Expropriation and Compensation37 
 
1.    Neither Party shall expropriate or nationalize a covered investment or take any 
measure equivalent to expropriation or nationalization (hereinafter referred to in this Chapter 
as ¡°expropriation¡±) except:  
 
      (a)   for a public purpose; 
 
      (b)   on a non-discriminatory basis;  
 
      (c)   in accordance with its laws and international standard of due process of law; 
            and 
 
      (d)   upon compensation pursuant to paragraphs 2 through 4. 
 
2.    The compensation shall be equivalent to the fair market value of the expropriated 
investments at the time when the expropriation was publicly announced or when the 
expropriation occurred, whichever is the earlier.  The fair market value shall not reflect any 
change in market value occurring because the expropriation had become publicly known 
earlier. 
 
3.    The compensation shall be paid without delay and shall include interest at a 
commercially reasonable rate, taking into account the length of time from the time of 
expropriation to the time of payment.  It shall be effectively realizable and freely 
transferable and shall be freely convertible, at the market exchange rate prevailing on the date 
of expropriation, into the currency of the Party of the investors concerned, and into freely 
usable currencies. 
 
4.    Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 12.12, the investors affected by 
expropriation shall have a right of access to the courts of justice or the administrative 
tribunals or agencies of the Party making the expropriation to seek a prompt review of the 
investors¡¯ case and the amount of compensation in accordance with the principles set out in 
this Article. 
 
 
Article 12.10: Transfers38 
 
1.    Each Party shall permit all transfers relating to a covered investment to be made freely 
and without delay into and out of its territory39.  Such transfers include: 
                                                 
37 This Article shall be interpreted in accordance with Annexes 12-A and 12-B. 
 
38 For greater certainty, Annex 12-C applies to this Article. 
 
                                   - 122 - 
 
 
 
      (a)   contributions to capital, including the initial contribution; 
 
      (b)   profits, dividends, capital gains, and proceeds from the sale of all or any part 
            of the covered investment or from the partial or complete liquidation of the 
            covered investment; 
 
      (c)   interest, royalty payments, management fees, and technical assistance and 
            other fees; 
 
      (d)   payments made under a contract, including a loan agreement; 
 
      (e)   payments made pursuant to Articles 12.5.4, 12.5.5 and 12.9;  
 
      (f)   payments arising out of a dispute; and 
 
      (g)   earnings and remuneration of a national of a Party who works in connection 
            with a covered investment in the territory of the other Party. 
 
2.    Each Party shall permit transfers relating to a covered investment to be made in a 
freely usable currency at the market rate of exchange prevailing at the time of transfer. 
 
3.    Each Party shall permit returns in kind relating to a covered investment to be made as 
authorized or specified in a written agreement between the Party and a covered investment or 
an investor of the other Party. 
 
4.    Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 through 3, a Party may prevent a transfer through the 
equitable, non-discriminatory, and good faith application of its laws relating to: 
 
      (a)   bankruptcy, insolvency, or the protection of the rights of creditors; 
 
      (b)   issuing, trading, or dealing in securities, futures, options, or derivatives; 
 
      (c)   criminal or penal offenses; 
 
      (d)   financial reporting or record keeping of transfers when necessary to assist law 
            enforcement or financial regulatory authorities; or 
 
      (e)    ensuring compliance with orders or judgments in judicial or administrative 
            proceedings. 
 
 
Article 12.11: Subrogation 
 

                                                                                                                                                        
39 For greater certainty, the transfers referred to in this Article shall comply with relevant formalities stipulated by the laws 
and regulations, if any, of a Party relating to exchange administration. 
 
                                   - 123 - 
 
 
1.    If a Party or its designated agency makes a payment to any of its investors pursuant to 
an indemnity, guarantee or insurance contract, pertaining to investments of that investor in 
the territory of the other Party, the latter Party shall: 
 
     (a)   recognize the assignment, to the former Party or its designated agency, of any 
           right or claim of the investor that formed the basis of such payment; and 
        
     (b)   recognize the right of the former Party or its designated agency to exercise by 
           virtue of subrogation such right or claim to the same extent as the original 
           right or claim of the investor. 
 
2.    If a Party or its designated agency has made a payment to its investors and thereby 
entered into the rights of the investor, the investor may not make a claim based on these 
rights against the other Party without the consent of the former Party or its designated agency 
making the payment.  For greater certainty, the investor shall continue to be entitled to 
exercise its rights that have not been subrogated pursuant to paragraph 1. 
 
3.    Articles 12.5, 12.9 and 12.10 shall apply mutatis mutandis as regards payment to be 
made to the Party or its designated agency referred to in paragraph 1 by virtue of such 
assignment of right or claim, and the transfer of such payment. 
 
 
Article 12.12: Settlement of Investment Disputes between a Party and an Investor of the 
Other Party 
 
1.    For the purposes of this Article, an investment dispute is a dispute between a Party 
and an investor of the other Party that has incurred loss or damage by reason of, or arising out 
of, an alleged breach of any obligation of the former Party under this Chapter with respect to 
the investor or its covered investments in the territory of the former Party. 
 
2.    Any investment dispute shall, as far as possible, be settled amicably through 
consultation between the investor who is a party to the investment dispute (hereinafter 
referred to in this Article as ¡°disputing investor¡±) and the Party that is a party to the 
investment dispute (hereinafter referred to in this Article as ¡°disputing Party¡±).  A written 
request for consultation shall be submitted to the disputing Party by the disputing investor 
before the submission of the investment dispute to the arbitration set out in paragraph 3.  
Such a written request shall specify40: 
 
      (a)    the name and address of the disputing investor; 
              
      (b)    the obligations under this Chapter alleged to have been breached; 
              
                                                 
40 The written consultation request shall be delivered to the following competent authorities 
of the disputing Party: 
 
    (a)      in the case of China, the Treaty and Law Department, Ministry of Commerce; and 
        
    (b)      in the case of Korea, International Legal Affairs Division, Ministry of Justice. 
         
                                   - 124 - 
 
 
      (c)    a brief summary of the facts of the investment dispute; and 
              
   (d) the relief sought and the approximate amount of damages. 
 
3.    The investment dispute shall on the request of the disputing investor be submitted to 
either41: 
 
      (a)   a competent court of the disputing Party; 
 
      (b)   arbitration in accordance with the ICSID Convention, if the ICSID Convention 
            is available; 
 
      (c)   arbitration under the ICSID Additional Facility Rules, if the ICSID Additional 
            Facility Rules are available; 
 
      (d)    arbitration under the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules; or 
 
      (e)    if agreed with the disputing Party, any arbitration in accordance with other 
            arbitration rules,  
  
provided that, for the purposes of subparagraphs (b) through (e): 
 
      (i)   the investment dispute cannot be settled through the consultation referred to in 
            paragraph 2 within four months from the date of the submission of the written 
            request for consultation to the disputing Party; and  
              
      (ii)  the requirement concerning the domestic administrative review procedure set 
            out in paragraph 7, where applicable, is met. 
 
4.  Each Party hereby gives its consent to the submission of an investment dispute by a 
disputing investor to the arbitration set out in paragraph 3 in accordance with the provisions 
of this Article.  
 
5.    Once the disputing investor has submitted an investment dispute to the competent 
court of the disputing Party or to one of the arbitrations set out in paragraph 3, the choice of 
the disputing investor shall be final and the disputing investor may not submit thereafter the 
same dispute to the other arbitrations set out in paragraph 3. 
 
6.    Notwithstanding paragraphs 3 and 4, no claim may be submitted to the arbitration set 
out in paragraph 3 unless the disputing investor gives the disputing Party written waiver of 
any right to initiate before any competent court of the disputing Party with respect to any 
measure of the disputing Party alleged to constitute a breach referred to in paragraph 1. 
 
7.    When the disputing investor submits a written request for consultation to the disputing 
Party under paragraph 2, the disputing Party may require, without delay, the investor 

                                                 
41 For the purposes of subparagraph (a), this paragraph shall not be construed to prevent, where applicable, preliminary tr ial 
by administrative tribunals or agencies. 
                                   - 125 - 
 
 
concerned to go through the domestic administrative review procedure specified by the laws 
and regulations of that Party before the submission to the arbitration set out in paragraph 3. 
 
The domestic administrative review procedure shall not exceed four months from the date on 
which an application for the review is filed.  If the procedure is not completed by the end of 
the four months, it shall be deemed to be completed and the disputing investor may submit 
the investment dispute to the arbitration set out in paragraph 3.  The investor may file an 
application for the review unless the four months consultation period as provided in 
paragraph 3 has elapsed.42 
 
8.    The applicable arbitration rules shall govern the arbitration set out in paragraph 3 
except to the extent modified in this Article. 
 
9.    The award rendered by an arbitral tribunal established under paragraph 3 (hereinafter 
referred to in this Article as the ¡°Tribunal¡±) shall include:  
 
      (a)   a finding whether or not there has been a breach by the disputing Party of any 
            obligation under this Chapter with respect to the disputing investor and its 
            covered investments; and 
 
      (b)   one or both of the following remedies, only if the disputing investor¡¯s loss or 
            damage is attributed to such breach: 
 
          (i)  monetary damages and applicable interest; and 
     
               (ii)   restitution of property, in which case the award shall provide that 
                      the disputing Party may pay monetary damages and any 
                      applicable interest, in lieu of restitution. 
 
10.   The award which is rendered by the Tribunal shall be final and binding upon both 
parties to the investment dispute.  This award shall be executed in accordance with the 
applicable laws and regulations concerning the execution of award in force, in the country in 
whose territory such execution is sought. 
 
11.   Notwithstanding paragraph 3, no claim may be submitted to the arbitration set out in 
that paragraph, if more than three years have elapsed from the date on which the disputing 
investor first acquired, or should have first acquired, whichever is the earlier, the knowledge 
that the disputing investor had incurred the loss or damage referred to in paragraph 1. 
 
 
Article 12.13: Special Formalities and Information Requirements 
 
1.    Nothing in Article 12.3 shall be construed to prevent a Party from adopting or 
maintaining a measure that prescribes special formalities in connection with investment 
                                                 
42 It is understood that any decision made under the domestic administrative review 
procedure shall not prevent the disputing investor from submitting the investment dispute to 
the arbitration set out in paragraph 3. 
 
                                   - 126 - 
 
 
activities by investors of the other Party in its territory, such as the requirement that 
investments be legally constituted under the laws or regulations of the former Party, provided 
that such formalities are consistent with this Chapter and do not materially impair the 
protections afforded by the former Party to investors of the latter Party and their investments 
pursuant to this Chapter. 
 
2.     Notwithstanding Articles 12.3 and 12.4, a Party may require an investor of the other 
Party, in its territory, to provide information concerning its covered investments solely for 
informational or statistical purposes.  The former Party shall protect such information that is 
confidential from any disclosure that would prejudice the competitive position of the investor 
of the latter Party or its covered investments.  Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed 
so as to prevent a Party from otherwise obtaining or disclosing information in connection 
with the equitable and good faith application of its law. 
 
 
Article 12.14: Security Exceptions 
 
1.    Notwithstanding any other provisions in this Chapter other than the provisions of 
Article 12.5.4 each Party may take any measure: 
 
      (a)   which it considers necessary for the protection of its essential security 
            interests; 
  
           (i)   taken in time of war, or armed conflict, or other emergency in that 
                 Party or in international relations; or 
            
           (ii)  relating to the implementation of national policies or international 
                 agreements respecting the non-proliferation of weapons; 
            
      (b)   in pursuance of its obligations under the United Nations Charter for the 
            maintenance of international peace and security. 
 
2. In cases where a Party takes any measure, pursuant to paragraph 1, that does not conform 
with the obligations of the provisions of this Chapter other than the provisions of Article 
12.5.4, that Party shall not use such measure as a means of avoiding its obligations. 
 
 
Article 12.15: Denial of Benefits43 
 
1.    A Party may deny the benefits of this Chapter to an investor of the other Party that is 
an enterprise of the latter Party and to its investments if the enterprise is owned or controlled 
by an investor of a non-Party and the denying Party: 
 
      (a) does not maintain normal economic relations with the non-Party; or 
 

                                                 
43 For the purposes of this Article, the term "non- Party" shall not include any separate customs territory within the meaning 
of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade or of the WTO Agreement that is a member of the World Trade Organization 
as of the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 
                                   - 127 - 
 
 
      (b)   adopts or maintains measures with respect to the non-Party that prohibit 
           transactions with the enterprise or that would be violated or circumvented if 
           the benefits of this Chapter were accorded to the enterprise or to its 
           investments. 
 
2.    A Party may deny the benefits of this Chapter to an investor of the other Party that is 
an enterprise of the latter Party and to its investments if the enterprise is owned or controlled 
by an investor of a non-Party or of the denying Party, and the enterprise has no substantial 
business activities in the territory of the latter Party. 
 
 
Article 12.16: Environmental Measures 
 
Each Party recognizes that it is inappropriate to encourage investment by investors of the 
other Party by relaxing its environmental measures.  To this effect each Party should not 
waive or otherwise derogate from such environmental measures as an encouragement for the 
establishment, acquisition or expansion of investments in its territory. 
 
 
Article 12.17: Committee on Investment 
 
1.    The Parties hereby establish a Committee on Investment (hereinafter referred to in 
this Article as the ¡°Committee¡±) with a view to accomplishing the objectives of this Chapter.   
The functions of the Committee shall be: 
 
      (a)  to discuss and review the implementation and operation of this Chapter;  
 
      (b)  to discuss other investment-related matters concerning this Chapter, including 
           the scope of the existing non-conforming measures referred to in paragraphs 2 
           and 3 of Article 12.3; and 
      
      (c)    to consult any matter arising under this Agreement that affects establishment, 
           acquisition, expansion, management, conduct, operation, and sale or other 
           disposition of investments from an investor of a Party in the territory of the 
           other Party. 
 
2.    The Committee may, as necessary, decide to make appropriate recommendations to 
the Parties for the more effective functioning or the attainment of the objectives of this 
Chapter. 
 
3.    The Committee shall be composed of representatives of the Governments of the 
Parties and may decide to invite representatives of relevant entities other than the 
Governments of the Parties with the necessary expertise relevant to the issues to be discussed.   
The Committee shall decide on the modalities of its operation as necessary.  
 
4.    Any decision of the Committee shall be made by consensus. 
 
5.    Unless otherwise decided by the Parties, the Committee shall convene once a year.  
 

                                   - 128 - 
 
 
 
                                    44
Article 12.18: Services-Investment Linkage  
 
1. Articles 12.5 (Minimum Standard of Treatment), 12.9 (Expropriation and Compensation), 
12.10 (Transfers), 12.11 (Subrogation), 12.12 (Settlement of Investment Disputes between a 
Party and an Investor of the other Party) and Annexes 12-A (Customary International Law), 
12-B (Expropriation) and 12-C (Transfers) of this Agreement shall apply, mutatis mutandis, 
to any measure affecting the supply of service by a service supplier of a Party through 
commercial presence in the territory of the other Party pursuant to the Chapter 8 (Trade in 
Services), only to the extent that they relate to a covered investment. 
 
2.  Articles 12.5 (Minimum Standard of Treatment), 12.9 (Expropriation and Compensation), 
12.10 (Transfers), 12.11 (Subrogation), 12.12 (Settlement of Investment Disputes between a 
Party and an Investor of the other Party), 12.13 (Special Formalities and Information 
Requirements), 12.15 (Denial of Benefits) and Annexes 12-A (Customary International Law), 
12-B (Expropriation), 12-C (Transfers) of this Agreement shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to 
any measure affecting the supply of financial service by a financial service supplier of a Party 
through commercial presence in the territory of the other Party pursuant to the Chapter 9 
(Financial Services), only to the extent that they relate to a covered investment. 
 
 
Article 12.19: Contact Points for Improving Investment Environment 
 
1.  For the purpose of improving investment environment and promoting investment in its 
territory, each Party designates contact points respectively, to receive the complaints from 
investors of the other Party with regard to its administrative action of governments and to 
provide assistance in resolving difficulties of investors of the other Party.  The contact 
points from the Parties will endeavor to provide advisory services available with regard to 
establishment, liquidation, investment promotion activities as much as possible. 
       
2.  The contact points are: 
         
        (a)   for China, the Investment Promotion Agency of Ministry of Commerce or 
              its successors; and 
         
        (b)   for Korea, the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy/Korea 
              Trade-Investment Promotion Agency (KOTRA) or their successors. 
       
3.  Further to the contact points referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, a Party shall maintain the 
local contact points at the level of local governments45 in its territory in order to promptly 
respond to the complaints and difficulties of investors of the other Party.  
       

                                                 
44 For greater certainty, Article 12.12 applies to investment disputes, in relation to such covered investments, between a 
Party and an investor of the other Party concerning an alleged breach of an obligation solely under the Articles referred to in 
this Article. 
 
45 For greater certainty, local governments of China in this paragraph means provincial governments directly under the 
central government. 
                                   - 129 - 
 
 
4.  Neither Party shall have recourse to Chapter 20 (Dispute Settlement) and Article 12.12 
for any matter arising under this Article. 


                                   - 130 - 
 
 
                               ANNEX 12-A 
                   CUSTOMARY INTERNATIONAL LAW 
 
 
The Parties confirm their shared understanding that ¡°customary international law¡± generally 
and as specifically referenced in Article 12.5 results from a general and consistent practice of 
states that they follow from a sense of legal obligation.  With regard to Article 12.5, the 
customary international law minimum standard of treatment of aliens refers to all customary 
international law principles that protect the economic rights and interests of aliens.


                                   - 131 - 
 
 
                               ANNEX 12-B 
                             EXPROPRIATION 
        
 
The Parties confirm their shared understanding that: 
 
1.    An action or a series of actions by a Party cannot constitute an expropriation unless it 
interferes with a tangible or intangible property right in a covered investment. 
 
2.    Article 12.9.1 addresses two situations.  The first is direct expropriation, where 
investments are nationalized or otherwise directly expropriated through formal transfer of 
title or outright seizure. 
 
3.    The second situation is indirect expropriation, where an action or a series of actions 
by a Party has an effect equivalent to direct expropriation without formal transfer of title or 
outright seizure. 
 
       (a)  The determination of whether an action or a series of actions by a Party, in a 
            specific fact situation, constitutes an indirect expropriation, requires a case-b
            y-case, fact-based inquiry that considers, among other factors,: 
 
             (i)    the economic impact of the action or series of actions, although the 
                    fact that such action or series of actions has an adverse effect on the 
                    economic  value  of  investments, standing  alone,  does  not  establish 
                    that an indirect expropriation has occurred; 
       
             (ii)   the  extent  to  which  the  action  or  series  of actions  interferes  with 
                    distinct and reasonable expectations arising out of investments; and 
       
             (iii)  the  character  and  objectives  of  the  action or  series  of  actions, 
                    including whether such action is proportionate to its objectives. 
       
       (b)  Except in rare circumstances, such as when an action or a series of actions by 
            a Party is extremely severe or disproportionate in light of its purpose, 
            non-discriminatory regulatory actions adopted by the Party for the purpose of 
            legitimate public welfare do not constitute indirect expropriation. 


                                    132 
 
 

                                ANNEX 12-C 
                                TRANSFERS 
 
 
1.    Nothing in this Chapter, Chapter 8 (Trade in Services), or Chapter 9 (Financial 
Services) shall be construed to prevent a Party from adopting or maintaining 
temporary safeguard measures with regard to payments and capital movements: 
       
      (a)   in the event of serious balance of payments or external financial 
            difficulties or threat thereof; or 

       (b)  where, in exceptional circumstances, payments and capital movements 
             cause or threaten to cause serious difficulties for the operation of 
             monetary policy or exchange rate policy in either Party. 
 
2.    The measures referred to in paragraph 1:  
 
       (a)  shall not exceed a period of one year; however, if extremely exceptional 
             circumstances arise such that a Party seeks to extend such measures, 
             the Party will coordinate in advance with the other Party concerning 
             the implementation of any proposed extension; 

       (b)  shall be consistent with the Articles of the Agreement of the 
             International Monetary Fund; 

       (c)  shall not exceed those necessary to deal with the circumstances 
             described in paragraph 1; 

      (d)   shall avoid unnecessary damage to the commercial, economic, or 
            financial interests of the Parties; 

      (e)   shall not otherwise interfere with investors¡¯ ability to earn a market rate 
            of return in the territory of the Party on any restricted assets; 

      (f)   shall be temporary and phased out progressively as the situation 
            described in paragraph 1 improves; 

      (g)   shall not be confiscatory; 

      (h)   shall promptly be notified to the other Party; 
                                    - 133 - 
 
 

       (i)  are applied in a manner consistent with Articles 12.3 and 8.4    
             (National Treatment) and Articles 12.4 subject to the Schedule of 
             Specific Commitments; and 

       (j)  shall not constitute a dual or multiple exchange rate practice. 

       

3.    Nothing in this Chapter, Chapter 8 (Trade in Services) or Chapter 9 (Financial 
Services) shall be regarded to affect the rights enjoyed and obligations undertaken by 
a Party as a party to the Articles of the Agreement of the International Monetary Fund. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                    - 134 - 
 
 

                                        CHAPTER 13 
                               ELECTRONIC COMMERCE 
 
 
Article 13.1: General 
 
The Parties recognize the economic growth and opportunity that electronic commerce 
provides, the importance of promoting its use and development, and the applicability of the 
WTO Agreement to measures affecting electronic commerce. 
 
 
Article 13.2: Relation to Other Chapters 
 
In the event of any inconsistency between this Chapter and other Chapters, the other Chapters 
shall prevail to the extent of the inconsistency. 
 
 
Article 13.3: Customs Duties46 
    
Each Party will maintain the current WTO practice47   of not imposing customs duties on 
electronic transmissions.48 
         
 
                                                 
46 The inclusion of the provisions on electronic commerce in this Chapter is made without prejudice to the Parties¡¯ position 
on whether deliveries by electronic means should be categorized as trade in services or goods.  
 
47 The current practice will be maintained consistent with paragraph 5 of Work Programme on Electronic Commerce of the 
Bali WTO Ministerial Decision (WT/MIN(13)/32-WT/L/907). 
 
48 The Parties may reserve the right to adjust the practice, consistent with any changes to the WTO Ministerial Decision on 
this issue. 
 
4 For greater certainty, for China, for any electronic signature to be certified by a third party to the electronic transaction, the 
authentication service must be provided by a legally established authentication service provider which shall be approved by 
an authority accredited in accordance with its domestic law.For greater certainty, for Korea, it may be required that the 
method of authentication meet certain performance standards or be certified, by an authority accredited in accordance with its 
domestic law. 

                                             - 135 - 
 
 

Article 13.4: Electronic Authentication and Electronic Signatures 
 
1.    Neither Party may adopt or maintain legislation for electronic signature that would 
deny a signature legal validity solely on the basis that the signature is in electronic form. 
 
2.    Each Party shall maintain domestic legislation for electronic signature that permits: 
     
      (a)    parties to electronic transaction to mutually determine the appropriate electronic 
             signature and authentication method;4950 and  
     
      (b)    electronic authentication agencies to have the opportunity to prove in judicial or 
             administrative authorities a claim that their electronic authentication to electronic 
             transaction comply with legal requirements with respect to electronic authentication. 
 
3.     Each Party shall work towards the mutual recognition of digital certificates and 
electronic signatures.  
 
4.     Each Party shall encourage the use of digital certificates in the business sector. 

 

 

Article 13.5: Protection of Personal Information in Electronic 

Commerce 

 
Recognizing the importance of protecting personal information in electronic commerce, each 
Party shall adopt or maintain measures which ensure the protection of the personal 
information of the users of electronic commerce and share information and experience on the 

                                                 
 
5 For greater certainty, for Korea, it may be required that the method of authentication meet certain performance standards or 
be certified, by an authority accredited in accordance with its domestic law. 
 

                                    - 136 - 
 
 

protection of personal information in electronic commerce. 
 
 
Article 13.6: Paperless Trading 
 
1.  Each Party shall endeavour to make trade administration documents available to the 
public in electronic form.  
 
2.  Each Party shall explore the possibility of accepting trade administration documents 
submitted electronically as the legal equivalent of the paper version of those documents. 
 
 
Article 13.7: Cooperation on Electronic Commerce 
 
1.     The Parties agree to share information and experience on issues related to electronic 
commerce, including, inter alia, laws and regulations, rules and standards, and best practices. 
 
2.     The Parties shall encourage cooperation in research and training activities to enhance 
the development of electronic commerce.  
 
3.     The Parties shall encourage business exchanges, cooperative activities and joint 
electronic commerce projects.  
 
4.     The Parties shall actively participate in regional and multilateral fora to promote the 
development of electronic commerce in a cooperative manner. 
 
 

Article 13.8: Definitions 

 
For the purposes of this Chapter: 
 
electronic authentication means the process or act of providing authenticity and reliability 
verification for the parties involved in electronic signature to ensure integrity and security of 
electronic communication or transaction;  
 
electronic signature means data in electronic form that is in, affixed to, or logically 

                                    - 137 - 
 
 

associated with a data message, which may be used to identify the signatory in relation to the 
data message and to indicate the signatory¡¯s approval of the information contained in the data 
message.  Data message means information generated, sent, received or stored by electronic, 
optical or similar means; and 
 
trade administration documents means forms a Party issues or controls that must be 
completed by or for an importer or exporter in connection with the import or export of goods. 
 
 

Article 13.9: Non-Application of Dispute Settlement          

 
Neither Party shall have recourse to Chapter 20 (Dispute Settlement) for any matter arising 
under this Chapter. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                    - 138 - 
 
 

                                CHAPTER 14 
                               COMPETITION 
 
 
Article 14.1: Objectives 
 
Each Party understands that proscribing anti-competitive business practices of enterprises, 
implementing competition policies and cooperating on competition issues contribute to 
preventing the benefits of trade liberalization from being undermined and to promoting 
economic efficiency and consumer welfare.  
 
 
Article 14.2: Competition Laws and Authorities 
 
1.     Each Party shall maintain or adopt competition laws that promote and protect the 
competitive process in its market by proscribing anti-competitive business practices.  Each 
Party shall maintain an authority or authorities responsible for the enforcement of its national 
competition laws. 
 
2.     Each Party shall also take appropriate actions, according to each Party's relevant laws 
and regulations with respect to anti-competitive business practices, which will prevent the 
benefits of trade liberalization from being undermined.  
 
 
Article 14.3: Principles in Law Enforcement 
 
1.     Each Party shall be consistent with the principles of transparency, non-discrimination, 
and procedural fairness in the competition law enforcement. 
 
2.     Each Party shall treat persons who are not persons of the Party no less favorably than 
persons of the Party in like circumstances in the competition law enforcement. 
 
3.     Each Party shall ensure that: 
 

       (a)        a person subject to an investigation to determine whether conduct 

                                    - 139 - 
 
 


               violates its competition laws or what administrative sanctions or 

               remedies should be ordered for violation of such laws is afforded the 

               opportunity to present opinion or evidence in its defense in the 

               investigation process. 

 

       (b)        persons subject to the imposition of a sanction or remedy for 

               violation of its competition laws should be given the opportunity to 

               seek review of the sanction or remedy through administrative 

               reconsideration and/or  administrative lawsuit in accordance with 

               each Party¡¯s laws. 

 
 
Article 14.4: Transparency 
 
1.     Each Party shall make public, including on the Internet, its laws and regulations 
concerning competition policy, including procedural rules for an investigation. 
 
2.     Each Party shall ensure that all final administrative decisions finding a violation of 
its competition laws are in written form and set out any relevant findings of fact and legal 
basis on which the decision is based.  
 
3.     Each Party shall endeavor to make public the decisions and any orders implementing 
them in accordance with its own laws and regulations.  The version of the decisions or 
orders that the Party makes available to the public shall not contain business confidential 
information or other information that is protected by its law from public disclosure. 
 
 
Article 14.5: Application of Competition Laws 

                                    - 140 - 
 
 

 
1.     This Chapter applies to all undertakings of each Party. 
 
2.     Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to prevent a Party from establishing or 
maintaining a public enterprise, entrusting enterprises with special or exclusive rights or 
maintaining such rights. 
 
3.     With respect to public enterprises and enterprises entrusted with special rights51 or 
exclusive rights:  
 
        (a)       neither Party shall adopt or maintain any measure contrary to the 
                principles contained in Article 14.2; and  
       
        (b)       the Parties shall ensure that such enterprises are subject to the 
                competition laws set out in Article 14.13, 
 
in so far as the application of these principles and competition laws does not obstruct the 
performance, in law or in fact, of the particular tasks assigned to them. 
 
 
Article 14.6: Cooperation in Law Enforcement  
 
1.     The Parties recognize the importance of cooperation and coordination in competition 
field, to promote effective competition law enforcement.   Accordingly, the Parties shall 
cooperate through notification, consultation, exchange of information, and technical 
cooperation. 
 
2.      The Parties recognize the importance of cooperation on matters related to their 
consumer protection laws.  Accordingly, the Parties may exchange and communicate 
consumer protection information for the purpose of better protecting consumer¡¯s rights and 
interests. 
 
 
Article 14.7: Notification 
 
1.     Each Party, through its competition authority or authorities, shall notify the other 
                                                 
51 Special rights are granted by a Party when it designates or limits to two or more the number of enterprises authorized to 
provide goods or services, other than according to objective, proportional and non-discriminatory criteria, or confers on 
enterprises legal or regulatory advantages which substantially affect the ability of any other enterprise to provide the same 
goods or services. 

                                    - 141 - 
 
 

Party of an enforcement activity if it considers that such enforcement activity may 
substantially affect the other Party's important interests.  
         
2.     Provided that it is not contrary to the Parties¡¯ competition laws and does not affect 
any investigation being carried out, the Parties shall endeavor to notify at an early stage and in 
a detailed manner which is enough to permit an evaluation in the light of the interests of the 
other Party. 
 
3.     The Parties undertake to exert their best efforts to ensure that notifications are made 
in the circumstances set out above, taking into account the administrative resources available 
to them. 
 
 
Article 14.8: Consultation 
 
1.     To foster understanding between the Parties, or to address specific matters that arise 
under this Chapter, each Party shall, on request of the other Party, enter into consultations 
regarding representations made by the other Party.   In its request, the Party shall indicate, if 
relevant, how the matter affects trade or investment between the Parties.   
 
2.     The Party to which a request for consultations has been addressed, shall accord full 
and sympathetic consideration to the concerns raised by the other Party. 
 
3.     To facilitate discussion of the matter that is the subject of the consultations, each 
Party shall endeavor to provide relevant non-confidential information to the other Party.  
 
 
Article 14.9: Exchange of Information  
 
1.     Each Party shall endeavor to, upon request of the other Party, provide information to 
facilitate effective enforcement of their respective competition laws, provided that it does not 
affect any ongoing investigation and is compatible with the laws and regulations governing 
the agencies possessing the information. 
 
2.     Each Party shall maintain the confidentiality of any information provided as 
confidential by the competition authority of the other Party and shall not disclose such 
information to any entity that is not authorized by the Party providing information. 
                                    - 142 - 
 
 

 
3.     On request of a Party, each Party shall make available to the other Party public 
information concerning its exemptions and immunities to its competition laws, provided that 
the request specifies the particular goods or services and markets of concern, and includes 
indicia that the exemption or immunity may hinder trade liberalization between the Parties. 
       
       
Article 14.10: Technical Cooperation 
 
The Parties may promote technical cooperation, including exchange of experiences, capacity 
building through training programs, workshops and research collaborations for the purpose of 
enhancing each Party¡¯s capacity related to competition policy and law enforcement. 
 
 
Article 14.11: Independence of Competition Law Enforcement 
 
This Chapter should not intervene with the independence of each Party in enforcing its 
respective competition laws. 
 
 
Article 14.12: Dispute Settlement 
 
1.     If a Party considers that a given practice continues to affect trade in the sense of this 
Chapter, it may request consultation to the other Party in the Joint Commission with a view to 
facilitating a resolution of the matter.  
 
2.     Neither Party shall have recourse to Chapter 20 (Dispute Settlement) for any matters 
arising under this Chapter. 
 
 
Article 14.13: Definitions  
 
For the purposes of this Chapter:   
 
anti-competitive business practices means business conduct or transactions that adversely 
affect competition in the territory of a Party, such as: 

                                    - 143 - 
 
 

 
        (a)     agreements between enterprises, decisions by associations of enterprises 
                and concerted practices, which have as their object or effect the prevention, 
                restriction or distortion of competition in the territory of either Party as a 
                whole or in a substantial part thereof;  
 
        (b)     any abuse by one or more enterprises of a dominant position in the territory 
                of either Party as a whole or in a substantial part thereof; or  
 
        (c)     concentrations between enterprises, which significantly impede effective 
                competition, in particular as a result of the creation or strengthening of a 
                dominant position in the territory of either Party as a whole or in a 
                substantial part thereof; 
 
competition laws means: 
 
        (a)    for China, Anti-monopoly Law and its implementing regulations and 
               amendments; and 
            
        (b)    for Korea, the Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act and its 
               implementing regulations and amendments;   
 
consumer protection laws means:  
 
        (a)    for China, Consumer Protection Law and its implementing regulations and 
               amendments; and 
 
        (b)    for Korea, Chapters III, IV.3, IX, and X of the Framework Act on 
               Consumer and its implementing regulations and amendments; 
 
undertakings means natural persons, legal persons and any other organizations that are in 
engagement of commodities production, operation or service provision. 
 
 
 
 
 

                                    - 144 - 
 
 

                                CHAPTER 15 
                    INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS 
 
 
                         Section A: General Provisions 
 
 
Article 15.1: Objectives 
 
1.    The objectives of this Chapter are: 
 
      (a)   to facilitate international trade and economic, social and cultural development 
            through the dissemination of ideas, technology and creative works; 
       
      (b)   to provide certainty for right holders and users of intellectual property over the 
            protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights; and 
       
      (c)   to facilitate the enforcement of intellectual property rights with a view, inter 
            alia, to eliminating trade in goods infringing intellectual property rights and 
            incentivizing research. 
       
2.  The Parties recognize that the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights 
should strike a balance between the legitimate interest of the right holders and the public at 
large. 
 
 
Article 15.2: General Principles 
 
1.    The Parties shall grant and ensure adequate, effective, transparent and 
non-discriminatory protection of intellectual property rights, and provide for measures for the 
enforcement of such rights against infringement thereof, counterfeiting and piracy, in 
accordance with the provisions of this Chapter and the international agreements acceded to by 
both Parties. 
 
2.  In respect of all categories52 of intellectual property covered in this Chapter, the Parties 

                                                 
52 For the purposes of this Chapter, "intellectual property" comprises in particular copyright and related rights, trademarks for 

                                    - 145 - 
 
 

shall accord to nationals53 of the other Party treatment no less favorable than it accords to its 
own nationals with regard to the protection54.  Exemptions from this obligation must be in 
accordance with the substantive provisions of Articles 3 and 5 of the TRIPS Agreement and 
Article 4(2) of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) Performances and 
Phonograms Treaty (hereinafter referred to as the ¡°WPPT¡±). 
 
3.  The Parties may take appropriate measures, provided that they are consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement and their international obligations, to prevent the abuse of 
intellectual property rights by right holders or the resort to practices which unreasonably 
restrain trade or adversely affect the international transfer of technology. 
 
 
Article 15.3: International Agreements 
 
The Parties affirm their commitments established in existing international agreements in the 
field of intellectual property rights to which both Parties are party, including the following: 
 
      (a)   the TRIPS Agreement; 
       
      (b)   the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property (1967) (the 
            Paris Convention); 
       
      (c)   the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works (1971) 
            (the Berne Convention); 
       
      (d)   the Patent Cooperation Treaty (1970), as amended in 1979, and modified in 
            1984 and 2001; 
       

                                                                                                                                                        
goods and services, industrial designs, patents, utility model, plant varieties, and undisclosed information. 
53 For the purposes of paragraph 2, a national of a Party shall include, in respect of the relevant right, any person , natural or 
legal, of that Party that would meet the criteria for eligibility for protection provided for in the agreements listed in Article 
15.3. 
54 For the purposes of paragraph 2, protection includes: (i) matters affecting the availability, acquisition, scope, maintenance, 
and enforcement of intellectual property rights as well as matters affecting the use of intellectual property rights specifically 
covered by this Chapter, (ii) the prohibition on circumvention of effective technological measures set out in Article 15.8, and 
(iii) the rights and obligations concerning rights management information set out in Article 15.9. 

                                    - 146 - 
 
 

      (e)   the Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of 
            Microorganisms for the Purposes of Patent Procedure (1977), as amended in 
            1980; 
       
      (f)   the Nice Agreement Concerning the International Classification of Goods and 
            Services for the Purposes of the Registration of Marks (1957), as amended in 
            1979; 
       
      (g)   the Protocol relating to the Madrid Agreement concerning the International 
            Registration of Marks (1989); 
       
      (h)   the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) Performances and 
            Phonograms Treaty (1996); 
       
      (i)   the WIPO Copyright Treaty (1996) (hereinafter referred to as the ¡°WCT¡±); 
       
      (j)   the Convention for the Protection of Producers of Phonograms Against 
            Unauthorized Duplication of Their Phonograms (1971); 
       
      (k)   the International Convention for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants 
            1978 (hereinafter referred to as ¡°1978 UPOV Convention¡±); and 
       
      (l)   the Convention Establishing the World Intellectual Property Organization. 
 
 
Article 15.4: More Extensive Protection 
 
Each Party may, but shall not be obliged to, provide more extensive protection for, and 
enforcement of, intellectual property rights under its law than this Chapter requires, provided 
that the more extensive protection does not contravene this Chapter. 
 
 
Article 15.5: Intellectual Property and Public Health 
 
1.  The Parties recognize the principles established in the Declaration on the TRIPS 
Agreement and Public Health (WT/MIN(01)/DEC/2), adopted on 14 November 2001 by the 
Ministerial Conference of the WTO and confirm that the provisions of this Chapter are 

                                    - 147 - 
 
 

without prejudice to this Declaration.  In interpreting and implementing the rights and 
obligations under this Chapter, the Parties are entitled to rely upon the Declaration on the 
TRIPS Agreement and Public Health. 
 
2.  The Parties reaffirm their commitment to contribute to the international efforts to 
implement the Decision of the WTO General Council of 30 August 2003 on the 
Implementation of Paragraph 6 of the Doha Declaration on the TRIPS Agreement and Public 
Health, as well as the Protocol Amending the TRIPS Agreement, done at Geneva on 6 
December 2005. 
 
 
                     Section B: Copyright and Related Rights 
 
 
Article 15.6: Protection of Copyright and Related Rights 
 
1.  Without prejudice to the obligations set out in the international agreements to which both 
Parties are party, each Party shall, in accordance with its laws and regulations and this 
Chapter55 grant and ensure adequate and effective protection to the authors of works and to 
performers, producers of phonograms and broadcasting organizations for their works, 
performances, phonograms and broadcasts, respectively. 
 
2.  Each Party shall provide that authors, performers, producers of phonograms, and 
broadcasting organizations have the right to authorize or prohibit reproductions of their works, 
performances, phonograms and broadcasts, in any manner or form. 
 
3.  Each Party shall provide that the term of protection of broadcast shall not be less than 50 
years after the taking place of a broadcasting, whether this broadcasting is transmitted by wire 
or over the air, including by cable or satellite. 
 
 
Article 15.7: Broadcasting and Communication to the Public 
 
1.  Performers and producers of phonograms shall enjoy the right to remuneration for the 
direct or indirect use of phonograms published for commercial purposes for broadcasting or 

                                                 
55 For the purpose of this Article, this Chapter refers to Articles on copyright and related rights in this Chapter. 

                                    - 148 - 
 
 

for any communication to the public.56 
 
2.  Each Party shall provide broadcasting organizations with the exclusive right to authorize 
or prohibit: 
 
      (a)   the re-broadcasting of their broadcasts; 
       
      (b)   the fixation of their broadcasts; and 
       
      (c)   the reproduction of fixations, made without their consent, of their broadcasts.57 
 
 
Article 15.8: Protection of Technological Measures 
 
1.  Each Party shall provide adequate legal protection and effective legal remedies against the 
circumvention of any effective technological measures, which the person concerned carries out in the 
knowledge, or with reasonable grounds to know, that such person is pursuing that objective. 
 
2.  For the purposes of this Chapter, technological measure means any technology, device 
or component that, in the normal course of its operation, is designed to prevent or restrict acts, 
in respect of works or performance or phonogram, which are not authorised by the right 
holder of any copyright or any right related to copyright as provided for by each Party¡¯s 
legislation, including access control measures that prevent or restrict access to works made 
available in the network. 
 
3.  Each Party may provide for exceptions and limitations to measures implementing 
paragraphs 1 and 2 in accordance with its legislation and the relevant international agreements 
referred to in Article 15.3. 
 
 
Article 15.9: Protection of Rights Management Information 
 
1.     Each Party shall provide adequate and effective legal protection against any person 
knowingly performing any of the following acts, knowing, or having reasonable grounds to 
know, that it will induce, enable, facilitate or conceal an infringement of any right covered by 
                                                 
56 It is understood that this paragraph is subject to the obligation of each Party to give such right under international 
agreements. 
57 The exercise of the above-mentioned right shall not prejudice the protected rights in works, performances, and phonograms 
embodied in the broadcast. 

                                    - 149 - 
 
 

this Chapter or the Berne Convention, WCT and WPPT: 
 
       (a)     to remove or alter any electronic rights management information without 
               authority; or 
       
       (b)     to communicate to the public, without authority, works, copies of works, 
               performance, copies of fixed performance or phonograms knowing that 
               electronic rights management information has been removed or altered 
               without authority. 
 
2.  For the purposes of this Chapter, rights management information means any 
information provided by right holders which identifies the work or performance or 
phonogram referred to in this Chapter, the author or any other right holder, or information 
about the terms and conditions of use of the work or performance or phonogram, and any 
numbers or codes that represent such information. 
 
3.     Paragraph 2 shall apply when any of these items of information is associated with a 
copy of, or appears in connection with the communication to the public of, a work or 
performance or phonogram referred to in this Chapter. 
 
 
Article 15.10: Limitations and Exceptions 
 
Each Party shall confine limitations or exceptions to exclusive rights to certain special cases 
that do not conflict with a normal exploitation of the work, performance, phonogram or 
broadcasting, and do not unreasonably prejudice the legitimate interests of the right holder. 
 
 
                            Section C: Trademarks 
 
 
Article 15.11: Trademarks Protection 
 
1.  The Parties shall grant adequate and effective protection to trademark right holders of 
goods and services. 
 
2. Neither Party may require, as a condition of registration, that signs be visually perceptible, 

                                    - 150 - 
 
 

nor may either Party deny registration of a trademark solely on the grounds that the sign of 
which it is composed is a sound. 
 
3.  Each Party shall provide that the owner of a registered trademark shall have the exclusive 
right to prevent all third parties not having the owner¡¯s consent from using in the course of 
trade identical or similar signs for goods or services that are identical or similar to those goods 
or services in respect of which the owner¡¯s trademark is registered, where such use would 
result in a likelihood of confusion.  In the case of the use of an identical sign, for identical 
goods or services, a likelihood of confusion shall be presumed.  The rights described above 
shall not prejudice any existing prior rights, nor shall they affect the possibility of Parties 
making rights available on the basis of use. 
 
4.  Each Party shall provide that the signs having the nature of deception shall not be used as 
trademarks and shall not be registered as trademarks. 
 
 
Article 15.12: Exceptions to Trademarks Rights 
 
Each Party may provide limited exceptions to the rights conferred by a trademark, such as fair 
use of descriptive terms, provided that such exceptions take account of the legitimate interests 
of the owner of the trademark and of third parties. 
 
 
Article 15.13: Well-Known Trademarks 
 
1.  No Party may require as a condition for determining that a trademark is well-known that 
the trademark has been registered in the Party or in another jurisdiction, included on a list of 
well-known trademarks, or given prior recognition as a well-known trademark. 
 
2.  The protection according to this Article shall not be limited to identical or similar goods 
or services where the registered trade mark is well known in the respective Party and provided 
that use of a trademark which is a reproduction, an imitation or a translation, of the 
well-known trademark above in relation to those goods or services would indicate a 
connection between those goods or services and the owner of the registered trademark and 
provided that the interests of the owner of the registered trademark are likely to be damaged 
by such use. 
 

                                    - 151 - 
 
 

3.  Each Party shall provide for appropriate measures to refuse or cancel the registration and 
prohibit the use of a trademark that is identical or similar to a well-known trademark, for 
related goods or services, if the use of that trademark is likely to cause confusion, or to be 
misleading, and the interests of the owner of the well-known mark are likely to be damaged 
by such use. 
 
 
Article 15.14: Registration and Applications of Trademarks 
 

1.  Each Party shall provide a system for the registration of trademarks, which shall include: 


 

      (a)   a requirement to provide to the applicant a communication in writing, which 
            may be provided electronically, of the reasons for a refusal to register a 
            trademark; 
 
      (b)   an opportunity for the applicant to respond to communications from the 
            trademark authorities, to contest an initial refusal, and to appeal judicially a 
            final refusal to register; 
       
      (c)   an opportunity for interested parties to oppose a trademark application before 
            registration and to seek cancellation or invalidation of a trademark after it has 
            been registered; and 
       
      (d)   a requirement that decisions in opposition and cancellation proceedings be 
            reasoned and in writing. Written decisions may be provided electronically. 

        


2.  Each Party shall provide a: 


        

      (a)   system for the electronic application for, and electronic processing, registering, 

                                    - 152 - 
 
 

            and maintenance of trademarks; and 
 
      (b)   publicly available electronic database, including an online database, of 
            trademark applications and registrations. 

 


 

                      Section D: Patents and Utility Model 

 


 

Article 15.15: Patents Protection 
 
1.  Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3, patents shall be available for any 
inventions, whether products or processes, in all fields of technology, provided that they are 
new, involve an inventive step, and are capable of industrial application. 
 
2.  Each Party may exclude from patentability inventions, the prevention within its territory of the commercial 
exploitation  of  which  is  necessary  to  protect ordre  public or  morality,  including  to  protect  human,  animal or 
plant life or health or to avoid serious prejudice to the environment, provided that such exclusion is not made 
merely because the exploitation is prohibited by its law. 
 
3.  Each Party may also exclude from patentability: 
 
      (a)   diagnostic, therapeutic, and surgical methods for the treatment of humans or 
            animals; and 
       
      (b)   plants and animals other than micro-organisms, and essentially biological 
            processes for the production of plants or animals other than non-biological and 
            microbiological processes. 
       
4.  Each Party may provide limited exceptions to the exclusive rights conferred by a patent, 
provided that such exceptions do not unreasonably conflict with a normal exploitation of the 

                                    - 153 - 
 
 

patent and do not unreasonably prejudice the legitimate interests of the patent owner, taking 
account of the legitimate interests of third parties. 
 
5.  Each Party may provide an applicant with accelerated examination for the patent 
application in accordance with domestic laws and regulations, on which topic the Parties 
agree to enhance cooperation. 
 
 
Article 15.16: Utility Model 
 
1.  Considering that both Parties have established utility model system, in order to facilitate 
the understanding and utilizing of utility model system by right holders and the public from 
both Parties and keep the balance of interests between right holders and the public, the Parties 
agree to enhance the cooperation on utility model legal framework of the Parties by 
exchanging information and experience on laws and regulations concerning utility model. 
 
2.  In any dispute over utility model infringement, the court may require the complainant to 
furnish an evaluation report made by the competent authority based on a result of prior art 
searches, as evidence for hearing the utility model infringement, where the Party does not 
provide a substantive examination. 
 
 
          Section E: Genetic Resources, Traditional Knowledge and Folklore 
                 
                 
Article 15.17: Genetic Resources, Traditional Knowledge and Folklore 
 
1.  The Parties recognize the contribution made by genetic resources, traditional knowledge 
and folklore to scientific, cultural and economic development. 
 
2.  The Parties acknowledge and reaffirm the principles established in the Convention on 
Biological Diversity adopted on 5 June 1992 (hereinafter referred to in this Article as the 
¡°Convention¡±) and respect the requirements in Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic 
Resources and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of Benefits Arising from their Utilization to the 
Convention on Biological Diversity, especially those on prior informed consent and fair and 
equitable sharing of benefits.  The Parties encourage the effort to enhance a mutually 
supportive relationship between the TRIPS Agreement and the Convention, regarding genetic 

                                    - 154 - 
 
 

resources and traditional knowledge. 
 
3.  Subject to each Party¡¯s international rights and obligations and domestic laws, the Parties 
may adopt or maintain measures to promote the conservation of biological diversity and the 
equitable sharing of benefits arising from the use of genetic resources and traditional 
knowledge. 
 
4.  Subject to future developments of multilateral agreements or their respective domestic 
legislations, the Parties agree to further discuss relevant issues on genetic resources. 
 
5.  The Parties, recognizing that patents and other intellectual property rights may have an 
influence on the implementation of the Convention, shall cooperate in this regard subject to 
national legislation and international law in order to ensure that such rights are supportive of 
and do not run counter to the objectives of the Convention. 
                                       
                                       
                       Section F: Plant Variety Protection 
                                       
 
Article 15.18: Plant Variety Protection 
 
1.  The Parties shall respect regulations on new plant varieties protection of the other Party 
and grant adequate and effective protection to breeders of new plant varieties. 
 
2.     The Parties will enhance cooperation on testing of new plant varieties to increase the 
efficiency therein. 
 
3.  At least the following acts in respect of the propagating material of the protected variety 
shall require the authorization of the breeder: 
 
      (a)   production or reproduction (multiplication) for the purposes of commercial 
            marketing; 
       
      (b)   conditioning for the purpose of commercial propagation; 
       
      (c)   offering for sale; 
       

                                    - 155 - 
 
 

      (d)   selling or other marketing; and 
       
      (e)   importing or exporting. 
 
 
                       Section G: Undisclosed Information 
 
 
Article 15.19: Undisclosed Information 
 
The Parties shall protect undisclosed information in accordance with Article 39 of the TRIPS 
Agreement. 
 
 
                          Section H: Industrial Designs 
 
 
Article 15.20: Industrial Designs 
 
1.  The Parties shall ensure in their national laws adequate and effective protection of 
industrial designs by providing a period of protection of at least 10 years. 
 
2.  The owner of a protected industrial design shall have the right to prevent third parties not 
having the owner¡¯s consent, at least from making, offering for sale, selling, importing articles 
bearing or embodying the protected design when such acts are undertaken for commercial 
purposes. 
 
3.  Each Party may provide limited exceptions to the protection of industrial designs, 
provided that such exceptions do not unreasonably conflict with the normal exploitation of 
protected designs and do not unreasonably prejudice the legitimate interests of the owner of 
the protected design, taking account of the legitimate interests of third parties. 
 
 
        Section I: Acquisition and Maintenance of Intellectual Property Rights 
 
 
Article 15.21: Acquisition and Maintenance of Intellectual Property Rights 

                                    - 156 - 
 
 

 
Where the acquisition of an intellectual property right is subject to the right being granted or 
registered, the Parties shall ensure that the procedures for grant or registration are of the same 
level as that provided in the TRIPS Agreement, in particular Article 62. 
 
 
               Section J: Enforcement of Intellectual Property Rights 
 
 
Article 15.22: General Obligation 
 
1.  Each Party shall provide that final judicial decisions and administrative rulings of general 
application pertaining to the enforcement of intellectual property rights shall be published or, 
where publication is not practicable made available to the public, in its national language in 
such a manner as to enable governments and right holders to become acquainted with them.  
Each Party may provide exceptions in accordance with laws and regulations, for example, that 
information in those decisions concerning business secrets or personal privacy shall not be 
published. 
 
2.  Each Party publicizes information on its efforts to provide effective enforcement of 
intellectual property rights in its civil, administrative, and criminal systems, including any 
statistical information that the Party may collect for such purposes.58 
 
 
Article 15.23: Presumption of Authorship or Ownership 
 
In civil, administrative, and criminal proceedings involving copyright or related rights, each 
Party shall provide for a presumption that, in the absence of proof to the contrary, the person 
whose name is indicated in the usual manner is the right holder in such work, performance, 
phonogram, or broadcast as designated. 
 
 
Article 15.24: Civil and Administrative Procedures and Remedies 
 

                                                 
58 For greater certainty, nothing in paragraph 2 is intended to prescribe the type, format, and method of publication of the 
information a Party publicizes. 

                                    - 157 - 
 
 

1.  Each Party shall make available to right holders59 civil judicial procedures concerning the 
enforcement of any intellectual property right. 
 
2.  Each Party shall provide that: 
 
      (a)   in civil judicial proceedings, its judicial authorities shall have the authority to 
            order the infringer to pay the right holder: 
       
            (i)     damages adequate to compensate for the injury the right holder has 
                    suffered as a result of the infringement60; or 
             
            (ii)    the profits of the infringer that are attributable to the infringement 
                    which may be presumed to be the amount of damages referred to in 
                    subparagraph (a)(i); and 
             
      (b)   in determining damages for infringement of intellectual property rights, its 
            judicial authorities may consider, inter alia, the value of the infringed goods or 
            services, measured by the market price, the suggested retail price, or other 
            legitimate measure of value submitted by the right holder. 
 
3.  In civil judicial proceedings, each Party shall, at least with respect to works, phonograms, 
and performances protected by copyright or related rights, and in case of trademark 
counterfeiting, establish or maintain pre-established damages, which shall be available on the 
election of the right holder.  Such pre-established damages shall be in an amount sufficient 
to constitute a deterrent to future infringements and to compensate fully the right holder for 
the harm caused by the infringement.61 
 
4.  Each Party shall provide that its judicial authorities, except in exceptional circumstances, 
shall have the authority to order, at the conclusion of civil judicial proceedings concerning 
copyright or related rights infringement, patent infringement, or trademark infringement, that 
                                                 
59 For the purposes of this Article, ¡°right holder¡± includes a federation or an association having the legal standing and 
authority to assert such rights, and also includes a person that exclusively has any one or more of the intellectual property 
rights encompassed in a given intellectual property. 
60 In the case of patent infringement, damages adequate to compensate for the infringement shall not be less than a 
reasonable royalty. 
61 Neither Party is required to apply paragraph 3 to actions for infringement against a Party or a third party acting with the 
authorization or consent of a Party. 

                                    - 158 - 
 
 

the prevailing party shall be awarded payment by the losing party of court costs or fees and 
reasonable attorneys¡¯ fees. 
 
5.  In civil judicial proceedings concerning copyright or related rights infringement and 
trademark counterfeiting, each Party shall provide that its judicial authorities shall have the 
authority, to order the seizure of allegedly infringing goods and of any materials and 
implements the predominant use of which has been in the creation of infringing good and, at 
least for trademark counterfeiting, documentary evidence relevant to the infringement. 
 
6.  Each Party shall provide that: 
 
      (a)   in civil judicial proceedings, at the right holder¡¯s request, goods that have been 
            found to be pirated or counterfeit shall be destroyed, under appropriate 
            circumstances; 
       
      (b)   its judicial authorities shall have the authority to order that materials and 
            implements that have been predominantly used in the manufacture or creation 
            of such pirated or counterfeit goods be, without compensation of any sort, 
            promptly destroyed or, without compensation of any sort, disposed of outside 
            the channels of commerce in such a manner as to minimize the risks of further 
            infringements; and 
       
      (c)   in regard to counterfeit trademarked goods, the simple removal of the 
            trademark unlawfully affixed shall not be sufficient, other than in exceptional 
            cases, to permit the release of goods into the channels of commerce. 
 
7.  Each Party shall provide that in civil judicial proceedings concerning the enforcement of 
intellectual  property  rights,  its  judicial  authorities  shall  have  the  authority, when it deems 
appropriate, for  the  purpose  of  collecting  evidence,  to  order  the  infringer  to  provide any 
information relevant  with  the  infringement  activities,  to  the  judicial  authorities,  and  when 
necessary and without prejudicing trade secrets, to the right holder. 
 
8.  Each Party shall provide that its judicial authorities have the authority to impose 
sanctions on parties to a civil judicial proceeding, their counsel, experts, or other persons 
subject to the court¡¯s jurisdiction, for violation of judicial orders regarding the protection of 
confidential information produced or exchanged in a proceeding. 
 

                                    - 159 - 
 
 

9.  Each Party may permit use of alternative dispute resolution procedures to resolve civil 
disputes concerning intellectual property rights. 
 
 
Article 15.25: Provisional Measures 
 
1.  Each Party shall provide that its judicial authorities have the authority, where appropriate, 
to act on requests for provisional measures inaudita altera parte expeditiously. 
 
2.  Each Party shall provide that its judicial authorities have the authority to require the 
applicant, with respect to provisional measures, to provide any reasonably available evidence 
in order to satisfy themselves with a sufficient degree of certainty that the applicant¡¯s right is 
being infringed or that such infringement is imminent, and to order the applicant to provide a 
reasonable security or equivalent assurance set at a level sufficient to protect the defendant 
and to prevent abuse, and so as not to unreasonably deter recourse to such procedures. 
 
 
Article 15.26: Special Requirements Related to Border Measures 
 
1.  Each Party shall, subject to the provisions of domestic legislation, adopt procedures to 
enable a right holder, who has valid grounds for suspecting that the importation, exportation, 
transshipment, placement under a free zone and placement under a bonded warehouse of 
goods infringing an intellectual property right62 may take place, to lodge an application in 

                                                 
62 For the purposes of this article, goods infringing an intellectual property right means; 
 
       (a)   counterfeit trademark goods means any goods, including packaging, bearing without authorization a 
             trademark that is identical to the trademark validly registered in respect of such goods, or that cannot be 
             distinguished in its essential aspects from such a trademark, and that thereby infringes the rights of the 
             owner of the trademark in question under the law of the country of importation; 
 
       (b)   pirated copyright goods means any goods that are copies made without the consent of the right holder 
             or person duly authorized by the right holder in the country of production and that are made directly or 
             indirectly from an article where the making of that copy would have constituted an infringement of a 
             copyright or a related right under the law of the country of importation; and 
 
       (c)   goods which, according to the legislation of the Party in which the application for customs action is 

                                    - 160 - 
 
 

writing with competent authorities, administrative or judicial, for the suspension by the 
customs authorities of the release into free circulation or the detention of such goods. 
 
2.    Each party shall, subject to the provisions of domestic legislation, provide in advance 
that a right holder may request to the customs authorities for protecting their rights in the 
course of their action in respect of importation, exportation, transshipment and carry-in into 
the bonded area including into free trade zone, with submission of sufficient information such 
as suspected infringing importer or exporter, identification method of the suspected infringing 
goods. Customs authorities may inform the details including name of exporter and importer, 
address of the importer, product description, quantity and declared price etc. to the right 
holder when they found suspected infringing goods relevant to such protection requesting 
rights in the course of their action and provide the right holder an opportunity to submit an 
application for initiating procedures to suspend the release of the goods. 
 
3.  Each Party shall provide that its competent authorities shall have the authority to require 
a right holder initiating procedures to suspend the release of suspected infringing goods, to 
provide a reasonable security or equivalent assurance sufficient to protect the defendant and 
the competent authorities and to prevent abuse.  Each Party shall provide that the security or 
equivalent assurance shall not unreasonably deter recourse to these procedures. 
 
4.  Each Party shall provide that its competent authorities may act ex officio to suspend the 
release of the goods, in case where there is clear evidence that the goods are infringing an 
intellectual property right stipulated in paragraph 1 without formal complaint from the private 
person or the right holder. 
 
5.  Each Party may provide that goods that have been suspended from release by its customs 
authorities, and that have been confiscated under infringement of an intellectual property right 
stipulated in paragraph 1 shall be destroyed, except in exceptional circumstances.  In regard 
to counterfeit trademark goods, the simple removal of the trademark unlawfully affixed shall 
not be sufficient to permit the release of the goods into the channels of commerce. 
 
6.  Where an application fee, merchandise storage fee or disposal expense is assessed in 
connection with border measures to enforce an intellectual property right, each Party shall 
provide that the fee shall not be set at an amount that unreasonably deters recourse to these 
measures. 

                                                                                                                                                        
             made, infringe a patent, a plant variety right, a registered design, or a geographical indication. 

                                    - 161 - 
 
 

 
 
Article 15.27: Criminal Procedures and Remedies 
 
1.  Each Party shall provide for criminal procedures and penalties to be applied at least in 
cases of willful trademark counterfeiting or copyright piracy on a commercial scale. 
 
2.  Each Party shall provide for criminal procedures and penalties to be applied in accordance 
with its laws and regulations for the willful unauthorized copy of a cinematographic work, or 
any part thereof, from a performance in a movie theater on a commercial scale. 
 
3.  Each Party shall provide: 
 
      (a)   penalties that include sentences of imprisonment as well as monetary fines 
            sufficient to provide a deterrent to future infringements, consistent with a 
            policy of removing the infringer¡¯s monetary incentive; 
       
      (b)   that its judicial authorities shall have the authority to order the seizure of 
            suspected counterfeit or pirated goods, any related materials and implements 
            used in the commission of the offense, any documentary evidence relevant to 
            the offense, and any assets traceable to the infringing activity; 
       
      (c)   that its judicial authorities shall, have the authority to order: 
       
            (i)     the forfeiture or destruction of all counterfeit or pirated goods; and 
             
            (ii)    the forfeiture or destruction of materials and implements that have 
                    been predominately used in the creation of pirated or counterfeit 
                    goods. 
             
            Each Party shall provide that forfeiture and destruction under this subparagraph 
            shall occur without compensation of any kind to the defendant. 
 
 
Article 15.28: Measures against Repetitive Copyright Infringements on the Internet 
 
Each Party shall take effective measures to curtail repetitive infringement of copyright and 
related rights on the Internet or other digital network.  
                                    - 162 - 
 
 

 
 
Article 15.29: Request for Information on the Alleged Infringer 
 
Each Party may establish an administrative or judicial procedure enabling relevant authorities 
or copyright owners who have given effective notification of claimed infringement to obtain 
expeditiously from a service provider information in its possession identifying the alleged 
infringer. 
 
 
                          Section K: Other Provisions 
 
 

Article 15.30: Cooperation 
 
Under  the  established  structure  of  this  Agreement,  each  Party  shall,  upon  request  of  the  other  Party,  and  in 
addition to the already existing forms of cooperation: 
 
      (a)   exchange information relating to intellectual property policies in their 
            respective administrations; 
       
      (b)   provide technical assistance and training courses; 
       
      (c)   inform the other Party of changes to, and developments in, the implementation 
            of their national intellectual property systems; 
       
      (d)   strengthen partnership in areas such as: 
 
            (i)     offering necessary collaboration upon request from the other Party 
                    on evidence collection, technical assistance and information sharing 
                    when fighting against cross-border intellectual property crimes; 
             
            (ii)  exchanges and cooperation on online copyright enforcement; 
             
            (iii) technology transfer on energy-saving and green technologies; 
             
            (iv)  other areas that the Parties have consensus on. 

                                    - 163 - 
 
 

             
      (e)   consider issues on intellectual property rights raised by businesses and 
            industries. 
 
 

Article 15.31: Committee on Intellectual Property Rights 
 
1.  The Parties hereby establish the Committee on Intellectual Property Rights (hereinafter referred to in this 

Article as the ¡°Committee¡±) as specified in Article 19.4 (Committees and Other Bodies). 

 
2.  For  the  purposes  of  the  effective  implementation and  operation  of  this  Chapter,  the  functions  of  the 
Committee shall include, but are not limited to: 
 
      (a)   reviewing and monitoring the implementation and operation of this Chapter; 
       
      (b)   discussing ways to facilitate cooperation between the Parties; 
       
      (c)   exchange of information on laws, systems and other issues of mutual interest 
            concerning intellectual property rights; 
       
      (d)   carrying out other functions as may be delegated by the Joint Commission; and 
       
      (e)   seeking to resolve disputes that may arise regarding the interpretation or 
            application of this Chapter. 
 
3.  The Committee shall meet within one year after the date this Agreement enters into force 
and annually thereafter unless the Parties otherwise agree.  The Committee shall inform the 
Joint Commission of the results of each meeting. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                    - 164 - 
 
 

                                        CHAPTER 16 
                               ENVIRONMENT AND TRADE 
                                                 

                                                 

Article 16.1: Context and Objectives 
 
1.   Recalling the Stockholm Declaration on the Human Environment of 1972, the Rio Declaration on 
Environment and Development of 1992, Agenda 21 of 1992, the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation on 
Sustainable Development of 2002, and the Rio+20 Outcome Document ¡°The Future We Want¡± of 2012, the 
Parties recognize that economic development, social development and environmental protection are 
interdependent and mutually supportive components of sustainable development.  They underline the benefit of 
cooperation on environmental issues as part of a global approach to sustainable development. 
 
2.   The Parties reaffirm their commitments to promoting economic development in such a way as to contribute 
to the objective of sustainable development and to ensuring that this objective is integrated and reflected in their 
trade relationship. 
 
3.   The Parties agree that environmental standards should not be used for trade protectionist purposes. 
 
 
Article 16.2: Scope 
 
Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, this Chapter applies to the measures including laws and 
regulations adopted or maintained by the Parties for addressing environmental issues. 
 
 
Article 16.3: Levels of Protection 
 
1.   The Parties reaffirm each Party¡¯s sovereign right to establish its own levels of environmental protection and 
its own environmental development priorities, and to adopt or modify its environmental laws and policies. 
 
2.   Each Party shall seek to ensure that those laws and policies provide for and encourage 
high levels of environmental protection, and shall strive to continue to improve its respective 
levels of environmental protection. 
 
 
Article 16.4: Multilateral Environmental Agreements 
 
1.   The Parties recognize that multilateral environmental agreements (hereinafter referred to as ¡°MEAs¡±) play 
an important role globally and domestically in protecting the environment.  The Parties further recognize that 
this Chapter can contribute to realizing the goals of such agreements. 
 
2.   The Parties commit to consulting and cooperating as appropriate with respect to negotiations in the MEAs 
to which both Parties are party on trade-related environmental issues of mutual interest. 
 
3.   The Parties reaffirm their commitments to the effective implementation in their laws and 
                                             - 165 - 
 
 

practices of the MEAs to which both Parties are party. 
 
 
Article 16.5: Enforcement of Environmental Measures Including Laws and Regulations 
 
1.   A Party shall not fail to effectively enforce its environmental measures including laws and regulations, 
through a sustained or recurring course of action or inaction, in a manner affecting trade or investment between 
the Parties. 
 
2.   The Parties recognize that it is inappropriate to encourage trade or investment by weakening or reducing the 
protections afforded in its environmental laws, regulations, policies and practices.  Accordingly, neither Party 
shall waive or otherwise derogate from such laws, regulations, policies and practices in a manner that weakens 
or reduces the protections afforded in those laws, regulations, policies and practices. 
 
3.   Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to empower a Party¡¯s authorities to undertake environmental law 
enforcement activities in the territory of the other Party. 
 
 
Article 16.6: Environmental Impact 
 
1.   The Parties commit to reviewing the impact of the implementation of this Agreement on 
environment, at appropriate time after the entry into force of this Agreement, through their 
respective participative processes and institutions. 
 
2.   The Parties, as appropriate, share information with the other Party on techniques and 
methods in reviewing the environmental impacts of this Agreement. 
 
 
Article 16.7: Bilateral Cooperation 
 
1.   Recognizing the importance of cooperation in the field of environment in achieving the goals of sustainable 
development, the Parties commit to building on the existing bilateral agreements or arrangements and to further 
strengthening cooperative activities in areas of common interest. 
 
2.   In order to promote the achievement of the objectives of this Chapter and to assist in the fulfillment of their 
obligations pursuant to it, the Parties have established the following indicative list of areas of cooperation: 
 
        (a)       promotion of the dissemination of environmental goods including 
                 environmentally-friendly products and environmental services; 
           
        (b)      cooperation on development of environmental technology and promotion of 
                 environmental industry; 
           
        (c)      exchange of information on policies, activities and measures for 
                 environmental protection; 
           

                                             - 166 - 
 
 

        (d)      establishment of environmental think-tanks cooperation mechanisms 
                 including exchange of environmental experts; 
           
        (e)      capacity building which include workshops, seminars, fairs and exhibition in 
                 the field of the environment; 
           
        (f)      build-up of environmental industry base in respective countries as a pilot area; 
                 and 
           
        (g)      other forms of environmental cooperation as the Parties may deem 
                 appropriate. 
 
3.   The Parties reaffirm that both Parties shall reinforce their cooperation in the field of environment, including 
in the areas of prevention and control of air pollutants, committed in the existing bilateral agreement such as 
Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Environmental Protection of the People¡¯s Republic of 
China and the Ministry of Environment of the Republic of Korea on Environmental Cooperation signed on 3 
July 2014. 
 
4.   The Parties shall exert their best efforts to ensure that the applications and benefits of cooperative activities 
between them are as broad as possible. 
 
 
Article 16.8: Institutional and Financial Arrangement 
 
1.   Each Party shall designate an office within its administration which shall serve as a contact point with the 
other Party for the purpose of implementing this Chapter. 
 
2.   A Party may through the contact points request consultations regarding any matter arising under this 
Chapter. 
 
3.   The Parties hereby establish a Committee on Environment and Trade (hereinafter in this Chapter referred to 
as the ¡°Committee¡±).  The Committee shall comprise senior officials from within the administrations of the 
Parties. 
 
4.   The Committee shall meet when deemed necessary to oversee the implementation of this Chapter. 
 
5.   The Parties recognize that adequate and sustainable financial resources are necessary for the 
implementation of this Chapter, and these resources should be made available. 
 
 
Article 16.9: Non-Application of Dispute Settlement 
 
Neither Party shall have recourse to Chapter 20 (Dispute Settlement) for any matter arising under this Chapter. 
 
 
 
 
 

                                             - 167 - 
 
 

                                CHAPTER 17 
                         ECONOMIC COOPERATION 
 
 
                         Section A: General Provisions 
 
 
Article 17.1: Objectives 
     
1.  The Parties agree to strengthen economic cooperation with the aim to enhance the mutual 
benefits of this Agreement in accordance with their national strategies and policy objectives. 
        
2.     The cooperation under this Chapter shall pursue the following objectives: 
         
      (a)     facilitating the implementation of this Agreement with a view to promoting 
            economic and social development of the Parties; and 
 
      (b)   creating and enhancing sustainable trade and investment opportunities by 
            facilitating trade and investment between the Parties and by strengthening 
            competitiveness and innovation capacities, with a view to promoting 
            sustainable economic growth and development. 
     
     
Article 17.2: Methods and Means 
        
1.  The Parties shall cooperate with the objective of identifying and employing effective 
methods and means for the implementation of this Chapter.   To this end, the Parties shall 
coordinate efforts with relevant international organizations and develop, where practicable, 
synergies with other forms of bilateral cooperation already existing between the Parties.  
     
2.  Cooperation between the Parties will be implemented through the tools, resources, and 
mechanisms available to the Parties, following the existing rules and procedures through the 
competent bodies for the discharge of their cooperation relations. 
 
3.  The Parties may use instruments and modalities, such as exchange of information, 
experiences, and best practices, for the identification, development, and implementation of 
projects. 

                                    - 168 - 
 
 

 
 
Article 17.3:  Non-application of Dispute Settlement 
 
Neither Party shall have recourse to Chapter 20 (Dispute settlement) for any matter arising 
under this Chapter. 
 
 
Article 17.4: Committee on Economic Cooperation 
 
1.  The Parties hereby establish a Committee on Economic Cooperation (hereinafter referred 
to as the ¡°Committee¡±), comprising representatives of each Party. 
        
2.  The  Committee  shall  meet at  least  once  a  year to  consider  matters arising  under  this 
Chapter, and may meet more frequently as the Parties may agree. 
 
3.  The Committee¡¯s functions shall include, inter alia: 
 
      (a)      monitoring  and  assessing  the  progress  in  implementation  of  the  projects 
               agreed by the Parties under this Chapter;  
       
      (b)      making recommendations on the cooperative activities under this Chapter; 
               and 
         
      (c)      reviewing, through regular reporting from the Parties, the operation of this 
               Chapter and the application and fulfillment of its objectives. 
 
4.  The Committee may establish other groups, if necessary, under its auspices.  
 
 
                      Section B: Agro-Fisheries Cooperation 
 
 
Article 17.5: Food Security 
                                                        
1.  Recognizing  the important  role  that  two-way  trade  and  investment  play  in  achieving 
long-term food security, the Parties shall, as appropriate, endeavor to promote and facilitate 
productive and mutually beneficial trade and investment in agriculture and food. 
 
2.  The Parties shall explore opportunities to cooperate in the area of global food security, 
including  through  relevant  regional  and international fora such  as  G20,  APEC,  FAO  and 
ASEAN 10+3. 
 

                                    - 169 - 
 
 

 
Article 17.6: Fisheries Cooperation 
 
1.  The Parties, recognizing the social and economic importance of fish and fisheries 
products, shall endeavor to cooperate in the field of fisheries. 
 
2.  The objectives of cooperation in fisheries are to: 
        
      (a)   strengthen and build on existing cooperative relationship63 between the Parties; 
                   and 
                    
      (b)   facilitate sound fish and fishery products trade64 between the Parties under the 
            approach of sustainable and responsible fishing. 
 
3.  The Parties will cooperate in the field of fisheries under the existing mechanism through:  
 
      (a)   facilitating conservation and management of marine living resources;  
                    
      (b)   fostering more dialogues and exchange of information;  
                    
      (c)   strengthening  the  research  and  technical  capacities  for  the  development  of 
            fisheries between the Parties; and  
             
      (d)   promoting the consumption of fish product in each Party. 
               
 
Article 17.7: Forestry 
 
1.  The Parties, recognizing that stable supply and sound trade of forest products is a critical 
element of the bilateral strategic relationship, shall promote mutual cooperation in enhancing 
the security of supply of forest products between the Parties, through: 
 
    (a)  working collectively to secure the stable supply of forest products; 
 
      (b)   making best efforts to avoid any export restrictive measures on forest products 
            unless such measures are presented with reasonable justifications; 
 
    (c) promoting the trade of forest products from legal sources; and 
 

                                                 
63 The China-Korea Joint Fisheries Committee. 
 
64 Specific implementation measures will be further discussed in the existing channel. 

                                    - 170 - 
 
 

      (d)   promoting and facilitating mutual investment in the field of forestry, including 
            forest plantation and wood processing industries. 
 
2.   The Parties shall endeavor to cooperate in the field of forestry.  Such cooperation may 
include, but is not limited to, the following: 
 
    (a)  development, utilization, and sustainable management of forest resources; 
 
      (b)   cooperation on the conservation of natural ecosystem and restoration of rare or 
            endangered species; 
       
      (c)   facilitating the cooperation on addressing problems regarding illegal logging 
            and the common understanding on timber legality verification; 
 
       (d)  strengthening the exchange and cooperation on the storage techniques of forest 
            germplasm resources; 
 
      (e)   promoting the development of the woody ornamental plants, tree seed and 
            treeseedling industries; and 
 
      (f)   other fields of forestry which may be agreed through discussions by the Parties. 
 
3.  Types of cooperation may include, but are not limited to, the following: 
 
      (a)   experience sharing and information exchange in the areas of mutual interests; 
     
      (b)   promotion of joint fora, seminars, symposiums, conferences, research and 
            development, education and training; 
     
      (c)   exchange of researchers, technicians, experts and officials; and 
     
      (d)   other types of cooperation as may be mutually determined by the Parties. 
 
 
                        Section C: Industrial Cooperation 
 
 

                                    - 171 - 
 
 

Article 17.8:   Steel Cooperation 
 
1.  The Parties, as major exporters of steel products, shall promote cooperative activities in 
these fields. 
 
2.  Areas of steel industry cooperation may include, but are not limited to the following: 
 
      (a)   exchanging information of both Parties on domestic regulations and supporting 
            policy in the steel market. 
       
      (b)   exchanging information of both Parties on the domestic steel market including 
            supply and demand; and  
       
      (c)  cooperation to promote a fair competitive environment in the steel market. 
 
 
Article 17.9: Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises Cooperation 
 
1.  The Parties shall endeavor to promote a favorable environment for the development of 
small and medium-sized enterprises (hereinafter referred to as the ¡°SMEs¡±). 
 
2.  The Parties will cooperate in the field of SMEs by encouraging relevant private and 
governmental bodies to build capacities of SMEs, including utilizing existing bilateral Small 
and Medium Business Policy Exchange Committee Mechanism, established by the relevant or 
competent authorities of the Parties. 
        
3.  Areas of SMEs cooperation may include, but are not limited to, the following: 
         
      (a)   facilitating the investment flows between SMEs of the Parties; 
 
      (b)   fostering more exchange of information on trade procedures, trade promotion 
            networks, joint business fora, business cooperation instruments, and any other 
            relevant statistics and information for traders who are SMEs; 
                 
      (c)   promoting training and exchange programs for small and medium-sized 
            enterprises   traders of the Parties, and exploring promising fields suitable for 
            inter-governmental cooperation on SMEs; 

                                    - 172 - 
 
 

       
      (d)   enhancing exchange of experiences between the public agencies of the Parties 
            on initiatives and policy instruments for the development of enterprises, with a 
            special focus on SMEs; and  
 
      (e)   enhancing competitiveness of micro enterprise through cooperation of private 
            and governmental bodies and exchange of information related with micro 
            enterprise. 
 
 
Article 17.10: Information and Communications Technology Cooperation 
 
1.  The Parties, recognizing the rapid development of Information and Communications 
Technology (hereinafter referred to as the ¡°ICT¡±) shall endeavor to promote the development 
of ICT and ICT-related services with a view to obtaining the maximum benefit of the use of 
ICT for the Parties. 
 
2.  Areas of ICT Cooperation may include, but are not limited to, the following:   
       
      (a)  promoting cooperation between the private and public sectors of the Parties; 
       
      (b)  enhancing cooperation in international exhibition and fora related to ICT;  
       
      (c)  undertaking other appropriate cooperative activities; and  
       
      (d)   mutual cooperation and support in international organizations related to 
            international standards. 
       
3.  The Parties will encourage cooperation in the following areas, including, but not limited 
to, the following: 
 
      (a)  scientific and technical cooperation for the software industry of the Parties; 
       
      (b)  research and development and management of information technology parks; 
       
      (c)   research and development on information technology services such as 
            integration of broadcasting and telecommunications; 

                                    - 173 - 
 
 

       
      (d)   research and development and deployment of networks and 
            telecommunications, when the Parties agree on the necessity of such activities; 
            and  
       
      (e)   any other areas as agreed by the Parties, such as Intelligent Transport Systems, 
            Automobile Electronics, Mobile Intelligent Terminals, and Key Materials and 
            devices of flat panel display. 
       
 
Article 17.11: Cooperation in Textile 
 
1.  The Parties shall promote the following cooperation as a means of building mutually 
beneficial partnership in textile industry chain.  
 
2.  Areas of textile cooperation may include, but are not limited to, the following: 
 
      (a)   development and application of industrial textile, functional fiber fabric, fine 
            fabric and knitted fabric; 
       
      (b)   cooperation and exchange of apparel and fashion design, brand marketing and 
            promotion;   
       
      (c)   cooperation and exchange in such areas as standard quality system certification, 
            and advanced management experience; 
       
      (d)   exchange of technology, information, researchers, technicians and other 
            experts; and  
       
      (e)   any other areas agreed by the Parties. 
       
3.     The Parties shall: 
       
      (a)   promote textile cooperation through related governmental organizations, 
            industry associations and enterprises engaged in textile industry chain; and  
       
      (b)   facilitate organization of joint fora, seminars, conferences, exhibition and 

                                    - 174 - 
 
 

            research projects. 
 
 
Article 17.12: Contact Points 
 
The Parties will designate the contact points on industrial cooperation, as below, in order to 
facilitate discussion;  
 
      (a)   for China, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or its 
            successor; and  
       
      (b)   for Korea, the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, or its successor.  
 
 
                      Section D: Government Procurement 
                                       
 
Article 17.13: Objectives 
 
The Parties, recognizing the importance of government procurement in their respective 
economies, shall endeavor to promote cooperative activities between the Parties in the field of 
government procurement. 
 
 
Article17.14: Transparency   
 
The Parties shall publish their laws, or otherwise make publicly available their laws, 
regulations and administrative rulings of general application as well as their respective 
international agreements that may affect their procurement markets. 
 
 
Article 17.15: Exchange of Information 
 
1.  The Parties shall at the national level, subject to their respective laws and regulations, 
exchange information on their respective laws and regulations on government procurement. 
 
2.  The exchange of information under paragraph 1 shall be facilitated through the following 

                                    - 175 - 
 
 

governmental authorities: 
 
      (a)   for China, the Ministry of Finance; and 
       
      (b)  for Korea, the Ministry of Strategy and Finance, and the Public Procurement 
      Service  or   their successors. 
 
 
Article 17.16: Contact Points 
 
The Parties will designate the contact points on government procurement, as below, in order 
to facilitate discussion: 
 
      (a)   for China, the Ministry of Finance; and 
       
      (b)   for Korea, the Ministry of Strategy and Finance, and the Public Procurement 
            Service, or their successors. 
 
 
Article17.17: Further Negotiation  
 
The Parties agree to commence negotiations on government procurement as soon as possible 
following completion of negotiations on the accession of China to the WTO Agreement on 
Government Procurement with a view to concluding, on a reciprocal basis, an agreement on 
government procurement between the Parties. 
           
 
                     Section E: Other Areas for Cooperation 
 
 
Article 17.18: Energy and Resources Cooperation 
 
1.  The Parties shall promote cooperation under this Chapter as a means of building a 
stronger, more stable, and mutually beneficial partnership in the field of energy and resources. 
 
2.  The Parties shall: 
 

                                    - 176 - 
 
 

      (a)   promote cooperation between the public and private sectors of the Parties, 
            through their government bodies, public organizations, research centers, 
            universities, and enterprises, engaged in the field of energy and resources; 
       
      (b)   encourage and support business opportunities, including investment, related to 
            plant construction in the field of energy and resources for a stable and mutually 
            beneficial bilateral relationship; 
       
      (c)   recognize and facilitate activities related to agreements and cooperation entities 
            that have already been organized; and  
       
      (d)   enhance policy dialogues on energy saving and comprehensive utilization of 
            resources through senior seminars and other forms and promote cooperation on 
            environment industry through projects, workshop, training, field visits and 
            other appropriate forms. 
 
3.   The Parties shall facilitate visits and exchanges of researchers, technicians, and other 
experts, and shall also promote joint fora, seminars, symposia, conferences, exhibitions, and 
research projects. 
 
 
Article 17.19: Science and Technology Cooperation 
 
1.  The Parties, recognizing the importance of science and technology in their respective 
economies, shall endeavor to develop and promote cooperative activities in the field of 
science and technology. 
 
2.  The Parties will encourage and facilitate cooperation in areas, as appropriate, including, 
but not limited to, the following: 
 
      (a)  joint research and development, including, if necessary, sharing of equipment; 
 
      (b)   exchange of scientists, researchers, research equipment engineers, technicians, 
            and experts; 
       
      (c)   joint organization of seminars, symposia, conferences, and other scientific and 
            technical meetings, including the participation of experts in those activities; 

                                    - 177 - 
 
 

       
      (d)   exchange of information on practices, policies, laws, regulations, and programs 
            related to science and technology; 
       
      (e)   cooperation in the commercialization of products and services resulting from 
            joint scientific and technological activities; and 
       
      (f)  any other forms of scientific and technological cooperation as agreed by the 
      Parties. 
 
 
Article 17.20: Maritime Transport Cooperation 
 
The Parties shall endeavor to cooperate in maritime transport through: 
 
      (a)   establishing contact points to facilitate information exchange on matters related 
            to maritime transportation and logistics services; 
 
      (b)   arranging training programs and technical cooperation related to port operation 
            and management; and 
 
      (c)   arranging technical assistance and capacity building activities related to 
            maritime transportation, including the vessel traffic service. 
 
 
Article 17.21: Tourism Cooperation 
 
The Parties, recognizing that tourism contributes to the enhancement of mutual understanding 
between them and is an important industry for their economies, shall endeavor to: 
 
      (a)   explore the possibility of undertaking joint research on tourism development 
            and promotion to increase inbound visitors to each Party; 
 
      (b)   encourage the relevant authorities and agencies of the Parties to strengthen 
            cooperation in tourism training and education, to ensure high-quality services 
            for tourists of the Parties; 
 

                                    - 178 - 
 
 

      (c)   cooperate in joint campaigns to promote tourism in the territories of the Parties 
            through workshops and seminars among the relevant authorities and agencies 
            of the Parties; 
       
      (d)   collaborate to promote the sustainable development of tourism in the territories 
            of the Parties; 
       
      (e)   exchange information on relevant statistics, promotional materials, policies, 
            and laws and regulations in tourism and related sectors; and 
       
      (f)   encourage tourism and transportation authorities and agencies to improve the 
            aviation connectivity between the Parties. 
 
 
Article 17.22: Outbound Tourist Cooperation 
 
1.  China encourages Korean tourist firms to apply, in accordance with relevant laws and 
regulations of China, for outbound tourist operational business under the current pilot project 
scheme.65 
 
2.  With regard to the application of Korean tourist firms, China will give priority in 
positively considering the authorization of Korean tourist firms to operate outbound tourist 
business, provided that the applying Korean firms meet all the requirements as stipulated in 
the relevant laws and regulations of China. 
 
3.  The China National Tourism Administration and the Ministry of Culture, Sports and 
Tourism of Korea will establish a channel to enhance this cooperation. 
 
 
Article 17.23: Cultural Cooperation 
 
1.  The objective of cultural cooperation is to promote cultural exchanges between the 
Parties.  In attaining this objective, the Parties shall respect the existing agreements or 
arrangements already in effect for cultural cooperation. 
                                                 
65 The current pilot project scheme means the scheme operated by China National Tourism Administration (CNTA) since 
2010 in accordance with Decree No.33 issued by the Ministry of Commerce and CNTA under which four foreign invested 
tourist firms have acquired the permission of operating outbound tourist business. 

                                    - 179 - 
 
 


 
2.  The Parties, in conformity with their respective legislations and without prejudice to the 
reservations included in their commitments in other Chapters of this Agreement, shall 
encourage exchanges of expertise and best practices regarding the protection of cultural 
heritage sites and historic monuments, including environmental surroundings and cultural 
landscapes. 
 
3.  The Parties endeavor to exchange information to identify, recover, and avoid the illegal 
traffic of their cultural heritage under the existing bilateral cooperation mechanism. 
 
4.  The Parties shall endeavor to promote cooperation in broadcasting and audio-video 
services sectors, for the purpose of deepening mutual understanding between the Parties.  
 
 
Article 17.24: Pharmaceuticals, Medical Devices and Cosmetics Cooperation 
 
1.  The Parties shall endeavor to cooperate for mutual growth and development in the sector 
of pharmaceuticals, medical devices and cosmetics, recognizing the importance of improving 
and protecting public health.  
 
2.  Areas of cooperation in the sector of pharmaceuticals, medical devices, and cosmetics 
include, but are not limited to the following: 
            
      (a)  information exchange on :  
                   
            (i)   policies including legislative progress and enforcement; and  
 
            (ii)     conferences, seminars, workshops, exhibitions, fairs and other 
                  events to encourage participation; 
             
      (b) cooperation in relevant private sector: 
                 
            (i)   exchange of researchers, students and those involved in relevant 
                industries; 
 
            (ii)     joint research programs and projects and their commercialization; 
        
            (iii)    product quality upgrade, supply-chain networking, technology trade, 
                  etc.; and  
         
            (iv)     promotion and facilitation of mutual investment opportunities. 
 
 
Article 17.25: Local Economic Cooperation 
                                    - 180 - 
 
 


 
1.     The Parties agree to facilitate the local economic cooperation, taking full use of 
advantages of the outcome of this Agreement, and initiate pilot cooperation project by 
identifying Weihai and Incheon Free Economic Zone (IFEZ) as demonstration areas.  The 
detailed programs of such cooperation shall be discussed by the municipal government of 
Weihai and Incheon after the conclusion of the negotiations of this Agreement. 
 
2.     The pilot cooperation project will explore and carry out cooperation in the fields 
including, but not limited to, trade, investment, services, industrial cooperation, so as to play 
an exemplary and leading role for local economic cooperation under the framework of this 
Agreement. 
 
3.  The Parties will explore the possibility to expand the local economic cooperation 
nationwide, after reviewing the results of the pilot cooperation project. 
 
 
Article 17.26: China-Korea Industrial Complexes/Parks 
 
1.  The Parties agree to strengthen cooperation in establishment, operation and development 
in the Industrial Complexes/Parks to be designated by the Parties, including knowledge 
sharing, exchanging information and facilitating investment. 
 
2.  The Parties shall endeavor to promote mutual investment by companies in the Industrial 
Complexes/Parks to be designated by the Parties. 
 
 
Article 17.27: Contact Points 
 
The Parties will designate the contact points on other areas for cooperation, except for 
outbound tourist cooperation under Article 17.22, in order to facilitate discussion;  
 
      (a)   for China, the Ministry of Commerce, or its successor; and 
       
      (b)     for Korea, the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, or its successor. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                    - 181 - 
 
 


                                CHAPTER 18 
                              TRANSPARENCY 
 
 
Article 18.1: Publication 
 
1.  Each Party shall ensure that its measures respecting any matter covered by this 
Agreement are promptly published or otherwise made available in such a manner as to enable 
interested persons of the other Party and the other Party to become acquainted with them. 
 
2.  To the extent possible, each Party shall: 
         
       (a)   publish in advance any such measures that it proposes to adopt; and 
 
       (b)   provide a reasonable opportunity for interested persons of the other Party and 
             the other Party to comment on such proposed measures.  
 
 
Article 18.2: Notification and Provision of Information 
 
1.  To the extent possible, each Party shall notify the other Party of any proposed or actual 
measure that the Party considers might materially affect the operation of this Agreement or 

otherwise substantially affect the other Party¡¯s legitimate interests under this Agreement. 

 
2.  On the request of the other Party, a Party shall, within 30 days of receipt of the request, 
provide information and respond to questions pertaining to any actual or proposed measure 
that the other Party considers might materially affect the operation of this Agreement, whether 
or not the other Party has been previously notified of that measure. 
 
3.  The information referred to under this Article shall be considered to have been provided 
when it has been made available by appropriate notification to the WTO or when it has been 
made available on the official, public and fee-free accessible website of the Party concerned. 
 
4.  Any notification, request, or information under this Article shall be conveyed to the other 
Party through their Contact Points referred to in the Article 19.5 (Contact Points). 
 

                                    - 182 - 
 
 

 
Article 18.3: Administrative Proceedings 
 
With a view to administering in a consistent, impartial, and reasonable manner all measures of 
general application affecting matters covered by this Agreement, each Party shall ensure, in 
its administrative proceedings applying measures referred to in Article 18.1 to particular 
persons, goods or services of the other Party in specific cases, that: 
 
       (a)   wherever possible, persons of the other Party that are directly affected by a 
             proceeding are provided with reasonable notice, in accordance with the 

             Party¡¯s procedures, when a proceeding is initiated, including a description of 

             the nature of the proceeding, a statement of the legal authority under which 
             the proceeding is initiated and a general description of any issues in 
             controversy; 
        
       (b)   such persons are afforded a reasonable opportunity to present facts and 
             arguments in support of their positions prior to any final administrative action, 
             when time, the nature of the proceeding and the public interest permit; and 
        
       (c)   its procedures are in accordance with its law. 
        
 
Article 18.4: Review and Appeal 
 
1.  Each Party shall establish or maintain judicial, quasi-judicial, or administrative tribunals 
or procedures for the purpose of the prompt review and, where warranted, correction of final 
administrative actions regarding matters covered by this Agreement.   Such tribunals shall be 
impartial and independent of the office or authority entrusted with administrative enforcement 
and shall not have any substantial interest in the outcome of the matter. 
 
2.  Each Party shall ensure that, in any such tribunals or procedures, the parties to the 
proceeding are provided with the right to: 
 
       (a)   a reasonable opportunity to support or defend their respective positions; and 
        

                                    - 183 - 
 
 

       (b)   a decision based on the evidence and submissions of record or, where 

             required by the Party¡¯s law, the record compiled by the administrative 

             authority. 
 
3.  Each Party shall ensure, subject to appeal or further review as provided in its law, that 
such  decision  shall  be  implemented  by,  and  shall  govern  the  practice  of,  the  office  or 
authority with respect to the administrative action at issue. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                    - 184 - 
 
 


                                        CHAPTER 19 
                             INSTITUTIONAL PROVISIONS 
 
 
Article 19.1: Joint Commission 
 
          The  Parties  hereby  establish the China-Korea Free  Trade  Area  Joint  Commission 
          (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the ¡°Joint  Commission¡±) at  the  level  of  Ministers comprising 
          representatives of both Parties. 
                    
 
Article 19.2: Functions of the Joint Commission 
 
1.   The Joint Commission shall: 
 
        (a)      oversee the implementation and further elaboration of this Agreement; 
 
        (b)      consider any proposal to amend this Agreement or to make modifications to the 
                 commitments therein; 
   
        (c)      oversee the work of all committees and other bodies established under this 
                 Agreement;   
           
        (d)      consider ways to further enhance trade and investment between the Parties  in 
                 accordance with the objective of this Agreement;  
           
        (e)      seek to resolve differences that may arise regarding the interpretation or application 
                 of this Agreement; and 
 
        (f)      consider any other matter that may affect the operation of this Agreement.  
 
2.   The Joint Commission may: 
 
        (a)      establish and delegate responsibilities to ad hoc and standing committees or other 
                 bodies; 
 
        (b)      adopt rules of procedure; and  

                                             - 185 - 
 
 


         
      (c)     take such other action in the exercise of its functions as the Parties may agree. 
 
 
Article 19.3: Rules of Procedure of the Joint Commission 
 
1.  The Joint Commission shall take decisions on any matter within its functions as set out in 
Article 19.2 by mutual agreement. 
 
2.      The Joint Commission shall convene in regular sessions once per year and at other 
times as the Parties may agree.  Regular sessions of the Joint Commission shall be held 
alternately in the territory of each Party and chaired successively by each Party.  Other 
sessions of the Joint Commission shall be held at such location as the Parties may agree and 
chaired by the Party hosting the meeting. 
 
3.  The Joint Commission shall be chaired by, the Minister of Commerce of China or its 
successor and the Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy of Korea or its successor, or their 
respective designees. 
 
4.  Each Party shall be responsible for the composition of its own delegation to the Joint 
Commission. 
 
5.  The Party chairing a session of the Joint Commission shall provide necessary 
administrative support for such session, and shall record any decisions and discussions of the 
Joint Commission, copies of which will be provided to the other Party. 
 
6.  Each Party shall treat any confidential information exchanged in relation to a meeting of 
the Joint Commission or any body created under paragraph 2(a) of Article 19.2 on the same 
basis as the Party providing the information. 
 
7.  All decisions of the Joint Commission and all Committees, working groups, and other 
bodies established under this Agreement shall be taken by consensus of the Parties. 
 
 
Article 19.4: Committees and Other Bodies 
 
1.  The following Committees and bodies are hereby established under the auspices of the 

                                    - 186 - 
 
 

Joint Commission.    
          
        (a)  The Committee on Trade in Goods; 
           
        (b)  The Committee on Trade in Services; 
           
        (c)  The Committee on Financial Services; 
           
        (d)  The Committee on Movement of Natural Persons; 
           
        (e)  The Committee on Investment; 
           
        (f)  The Committee on Customs; 
           
                 (i)     Sub-Committee on Rules of Origin; 
           
                 (ii)    Sub-Committee on Customs Procedure and Trade Facilitation; 
           
        (g)  The Committee on Outward Processing Zones 
           
        (h)  The Committee on Trade Remedies; 
           
        (i)  The Committee on Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures; 
           
        (j)  The Committee on Technical Barriers to Trade; 
           
        (k)  The Committee on Intellectual Property Rights; 
           
        (l)  The Committee on Environment and Trade; and 
           
        (m)  The Committee on Economic Cooperation. 
           
         
2.   The Committees may decide to establish their own sub-Committees or any other body for 
the performance of their tasks. 
 
3.   All decisions made by the Committees and other bodies shall be subject to the 

                                             - 187 - 
 
 

endorsement of the Joint Commission. 
 
         
Article 19.5: Contact Points 
 
1.  Each Party shall designate a Contact Point or Points to facilitate communications between 
the Parties on any matter covered by this Agreement.  The following Contact Points are 
designated: 
       
      (a)  for China, the Ministry of Commerce, or its successor; and 
         
      (b)  for Korea, the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, or its successor. 
 
2.  On the request of the other Party, the Contact Point or Points shall identify the office or 
official responsible for the matter and assist, as necessary, in facilitating communications with 
the requesting Party. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                    - 188 - 
 
 


                                CHAPTER 20 
                            DISPUTE SETTLEMENT 
 
 
Article 20.1: Cooperation 
 
The Parties shall at all times endeavor to agree on the interpretation and application of this 
Agreement, and shall make every attempt through cooperation and consultations to arrive at a 
mutually satisfactory resolution of any matter that might affect its operation when a dispute 
occurs. 
 
 
Article 20.2: Scope 
 
    Unless otherwise  provided  in  this  Agreement  or  as  the  Parties  otherwise  agree, this 
Chapter shall apply with respect to the settlement of all disputes between the Parties regarding 
the interpretation and application of this Agreement or wherever a Party considers that: 
 
      (a)     a measure of the other Party is inconsistent with its obligations under this 
            Agreement; or 
        
      (b)   the  other  Party  has  otherwise failed  to  carry  out  its  obligations  under  this 
            Agreement. 
       
 
Article 20.3: Choice of Forum 
 
1.  Where a dispute arises under this Agreement and under the WTO Agreement or any other 
agreement  to  which  both  Parties  are  party, the  complaining Party  may  select  the  forum  in 
which to settle the dispute. 
 
2.  Once the complaining Party has requested the establishment of a dispute settlement panel 
under  an  agreement  referred  to  in  paragraph  1, the  forum  selected  shall be  used  to  the 
exclusion of other fora. 
 
Article 20.4:  Consultations 
 

                                    - 189 - 
 
 

1.  The Parties shall make every attempt to arrive at a mutually satisfactory resolution of any 
dispute through  consultations  under  this  Article  or  other  consultative  provisions  of  this 
Agreement. 
  
2.  Either  Party  may  request  consultations  with  the other  Party  with respect  to  any  matter 
described in Article 20.2 by delivering written notification to the other Party.  The requesting 
Party shall set out the reasons for the request, including identification of the measure at issue 
and an indication of the legal basis for the complaint, in the written notification.  If a request 
for consultations is made, the other Party shall reply in writing to the request within 10 days 
after the date of its receipt. 
 
3.  Consultations shall be held in good faith within 30 days after the date of receipt of the 
request  with a  view of reaching  a  mutually  satisfactory  solution and  take  place,  unless  the 
Parties otherwise agree, in the territory of the  requested Party . 
 
4.  If the requested Party does not reply within 10 days or does not enter into consultations 
within 30 days from the date of receipt of the request for consultations, then the requesting 
Party may proceed directly to request the establishment of a panel in accordance with Article 
20.6. 
 
5.     Each Party shall: 
 
      (a)   provide sufficient information in the consultations to enable a full examination 
            of  how  the  matter subject  to  consultations  might  affect  the  operation  of  this 
            Agreement; and 
       
      (b)   treat any confidential information exchanged in the course of consultations on 
            the same basis as the Party providing the information.  
       
6.  Consultations shall be confidential  and without prejudice to  the rights  of the Parties in 
any further proceedings under this Chapter. 
 
 
 Article 20.5: Good Offices, Conciliation or Mediation 
 
1.     Good  offices,  conciliation,  and  mediation  are  procedures  undertaken  voluntarily  if 
the Parties so agree. 

                                    - 190 - 
 
 

 
2.     Proceedings  involving  good  offices,  conciliation,  and  mediation,  and  in  particular 
positions  taken  by  the  Parties  during  these  proceedings,  shall  be  confidential  and  without 
prejudice to the rights of either Party in any further proceedings. 
 
3.     Good offices, conciliation, or mediation may be requested at any time by any Party.  
They may begin at any time and be terminated at any time.  If the Parties agree, procedures 
for  good  offices,  conciliation  or  mediation  may  continue  while  the  dispute  proceeds  for 
resolution before a panel established under Article 20.6. 
 
4.  The Parties are encouraged to enter into a mediation procedure in particular when a Party 
believes that a certain non-tariff measure adversely affects trade between the Parties and that 
such measure is related to the matter falling under market access of goods of this Agreement 
and is subject to this Chapter, unless the Parties otherwise agree. 
 
5.  The  Parties  should  endeavor  to  participate  in  the  mediation  procedure  provided for in 
paragraph  4  in  an  expeditious  way  and  with  the  aim  to  reach  a  mutually  agreed  solution 
within a reasonable period of time with the assistance of a mediator designated or appointed 
by  the  Parties  upon  agreement.  Where  the  Parties  have  agreed  to  a  solution,  each Party 
should take any measure necessary to implement the mutually agreed solution. 
 
6.  The mediation procedure provided for in paragraph 4 is not intended to serve as a basis 
for dispute settlement procedures under this Agreement or any other agreement in which the 
Parties participate as parties.  
 
 
Article 20.6: Establishment of Panel 
 
1.  If the consultations referred to in Article 20.4 fail to resolve a matter within 60 days after 
the date of receipt of the request for consultations or within such other period as the Parties 
may  agree, the complaining Party  may deliver  a  written  request  to  establish  a  panel  to  the 
other Party. 
 
2.  The  complaining  Party  shall indicate  in  the  request whether  consultations  were  held, 
identify the specific measure at issue and provide a brief summary of the legal basis for the 
complaint sufficient to present the problem clearly. 
 

                                    - 191 - 
 
 

3.  A  panel  shall  be  established  upon  the  date  of  receipt  of  the  request  referred  to  in 
paragraph 1. 
 
 
Article 20.7: Composition of Panel 
 
1.  Unless  the  Parties  otherwise  agree,  the  Parties  shall  apply  the  following  procedures  in 
selecting a panel: 
  
      (a)   the panel shall comprise three members; 
             
      (b)    each  Party  shall appoint one  panelist respectively within 15 days after the 
            establishment of the panel.  If a Party fails to  appoint a panelist within that 
            period,  the  panelist  shall  be  appointed  by  the  other  Party,  unless  the  Parties 
            otherwise decide; 
       
      (c)   the Parties shall endeavor to agree on the third panelist, who shall serve as the 
            chair, within 30 days after the establishment of the panel; and 
 
      (d)   if  the  Parties  are  unable  to  agree  on  the  chair  within  30  days  after  the 
            establishment  of  the  panel,  on  the request  of  any  Party  to  the  dispute, the 
            Director General  of  the  WTO is  expected  to  designate  the  chair within  a 
            further period of 30 days.  In the event that the Director General of the WTO 
            is  a  national  of  either  Party  or  unable  to  perform  this  task,  the  Deputy 
            Director-General  of  the  WTO  who  is  not  a  national  of  either  Party  shall  be 
            requested to perform such task. 
 
2.      The chair of the panel shall not be a national of either Party, nor have his or her usual 
place of residence in the territory of either Party, nor be employed by either Party, nor have 
dealt with the matter in any capacity. 
  
3.  If a panelist appointed under this Article resigns or becomes unable to serve on the panel, 
a successor shall be appointed within 15 days in accordance with the selection procedure of 
the original  panelist  and  the  successor  shall  have  all  the  powers  and  duties  of  the  original 
panelist.  In  such  a  case,  any  time  period  applicable  to  the panel  proceedings  shall  be 
suspended during the appointment of the successor. 
  

                                    - 192 - 
 
 

4.  All panelists shall: 
 
      (a)   have expertise or experience in law, international trade, other matters covered 
            by this Agreement, or the resolution of disputes arising under international 
            trade agreements; 
 
      (b)   be chosen strictly on the basis of objectivity, reliability, and sound judgment; 
       
      (c)   be independent of, and not be affiliated with or take instructions from, either 
            Party; and 
       
      (d)   comply with a code of conduct established in Annex 20-B (Code of Conduct 
            for Panelists and Mediators). 
 
5.  Where a Party considers that a panelist does not comply with the requirements of Annex 
20-B (Code  of  Conduct  for  Panelists  and  Mediators),  the  Parties  shall  consult  and,  if  so 
agreed, replace that panelist in accordance with paragraph 3. 
 
 
Article 20.8: Functions of Panel 
 
1.  The  function  of  a  panel  is  to  make  an  objective  assessment  of  the  dispute  before  it, 
including an examination of the facts of the case and the applicability of and conformity with 
this Agreement. 
 
2.  Where  a  panel  concludes  that  a  measure  is  inconsistent  with  this  Agreement,  it  shall 
recommend  that  the Party  complained  against  bring  the  measure  into  conformity  with  this 
Agreement. 
 
 
Article 20.9: Rules of Procedure 
 
1.  Unless the Parties otherwise agree, a panel shall follow the Rules of Procedure set out in 
Annex 20-A (Rules of Procedure) and may, after consulting with the Parties, adopt additional 
rules of procedure not inconsistent with the Annex 20-A (Rules of Procedure). 
 
2   Unless the Parties otherwise agree within 20 days from the date of receipt of the request 

                                    - 193 - 
 
 

for the establishment of the panel, the panel¡¯s terms of reference shall be: 
  
      ¡°To  examine,  in  the  light  of  the  relevant  provisions  of  this  Agreement,  the  matter 
      referred to in the request for the establishment of the panel pursuant to Article 20.6 
      and to  make  findings of  law  and  fact  together  with  the  reasons  therefore  for  the 
      resolution of the dispute, conclusions, and recommendations.¡± 
 
3.  On the request of a Party, or on its own initiative, the panel may seek information and 
technical advice from any person or body that it deems appropriate, provided that the Parties 
so agree. 
 
4.  Unless the Parties otherwise agree, the remuneration of the panelists and other expenses 
of the panel shall be borne by the Parties in equal shares. 
 
 
Article 20.10: Suspension or Termination of Panel Proceedings 
 
1.  The  Parties  may  agree  that a panel  suspends  its  work  at  any  time  for  a  period  not 
exceeding 12 months from the date of such agreement.  In the event of such a suspension, all 
relevant timeframes set out in this Chapter shall be extended by the amount of time that the 
work was suspended.  If the work of the panel has been suspended for more than 12 months, 
the authority for establishment of the panel shall lapse, unless the Parties otherwise agree. 
 
2.  The Parties may agree to terminate the proceedings of a panel. 
 
 
Article20.11: Panel Report 
 
1.  Unless the Parties otherwise agree, a panel shall, within 120 days after the last panelist is 
appointed, issue to the Parties an interim report.  
 
2.  In exceptional  cases, if the panel considers it cannot issue its interim report within the 
period of 120 days, it shall inform the Parties in writing of the reasons for the delay together 
with an estimate of the period within which it will release its report.  Any delay shall not 
exceed a further period of 30 days unless the Parties otherwise agree. 
 
3.  The  panel  shall  base  its  report  on  the  relevant  provisions  of  this Agreement  and  the 

                                    - 194 - 
 
 

submissions  and  arguments of  the  Parties.  The  panel  shall  consider  this  Agreement  in 
accordance with customary rules of interpretation of public international law, including those 
codified in the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties (1969). 
 
4.  Each Party may submit written comments to the panel on its interim report within 15 days 
of the presentation of the report.  After considering any written comments by the Parties on 
the  interim report,  the  panel  may modify  its  report  and  make  any  further  examination  it 
considers appropriate. 
 
5.  The panel shall present a final report to the Parties within 45 days of the presentation of 
the interim report, unless the Parties otherwise agree.  The Parties shall make the final report 
available to  the public within 15  days after  the  issuance  of  the  final  report,  subject  to  the 
protection of confidential information, unless the Parties decide not to do so. 
 
6.  The panel shall make every effort to take its decision by consensus. If the panel is unable 
to  reach  consensus, it  may  take  its  decision by  majority  vote.  Panelists  may  furnish 
dissenting or separate opinions on matters not unanimously agreed.  All  opinions  expressed 
in the panel report by individual panelists shall be anonymous. 
 
7.  The final report of the panel shall be final and binding on the Parties for the dispute and 
shall  not  create  any  rights  or  obligations  for  persons.   The  final  report  shall  set  out  the 
findings of fact, the applicability of the relevant provisions of this Agreement and the basic 
rationale behind any findings and conclusions that the panel makes. 
 
   
Article 20.12: Implementation of the Final Report of the panel 
 
1.  If  in  its  final  report  the  panel determines that  a  Party  has  not  conformed  with  its 
obligations under this Agreement, the resolution, whenever possible, shall be to eliminate the 
non-conformity. 
 
2.  Unless  the  Parties  otherwise  agree,  the  Party  complained  against  shall  eliminate  the 
non-conformity as  determined in  the final report  of the panel  immediately, or if this  is  not 
practicable, within a reasonable period of time referred to in Article 20.13. 
 
 
Article 20.13: Reasonable Period of Time 

                                    - 195 - 
 
 

 
1.  The reasonable period of time shall be mutually determined by the Parties, or where the 
Parties fail to agree on the reasonable period of time within 30 days of the issuance of the 
final  report  of  the  panel,  either  Party  may,  to  the  extent  possible,  refer  the  matter to  the 
original panel, which shall determine the reasonable period of time. 
 
2.  The  panel  shall  provide  its  report  to  the  Parties within 30 days  after  the  date  of  the 
referral of the matter to it.   When the panel considers that it cannot provide its report within 
this timeframe, it shall inform the Parties in writing of the reasons for the delay together with 
an estimate of the period within which it will submit its report.   Any delay shall not exceed a 
further period of 30 days unless the Parties otherwise agree. 
 
3.   The reasonable period of time normally should not exceed 15 months from the date of 
issuance of the final report of the panel. 
 
4.   The  Party  complained against will  inform  the  complaining  Party  in  writing  of  its 
progress to comply with the final report of the panel at least 30 days before the expiry of the 
reasonable period of time. 
 
 
Article 20.14: Compliance Review 
 
1.  The Party  complained  against shall notify the complaining Party  before the end of the 
reasonable period of time of any measures that it has taken to comply with the final report of 
the panel. 
 
2.  Where there is disagreement as to the existence or consistency with this Agreement of 
measures  taken  to  comply  with  the  recommendations  of  the  panel,  such  dispute  shall  be 
referred to a panel proceeding, including wherever possible by resort to the original panel. 
 
3.  The  panel  shall  provide  its  report  to  the  Parties  within  60  days  after  the  date  of  the 
referral of the matter to it. When the panel considers that it cannot provide its report within 
this timeframe, it shall inform the Parties in writing of the reasons for the delay together with 
an estimate of the period within which it will submit its report.   Any delay shall not exceed a 
further period of 30 days unless the Parties otherwise agree. 
 
4.  Articles concerning panel procedures in this Agreement shall apply mutatis mutandis to 

                                    - 196 - 
 
 

the procedure under this Article. 
 
Article 20.15: Suspension of Concessions or Other Obligations 
 
1.  If the panel under Article 20.14 finds that the Party complained against fails to bring the 
measure  found  to  be  inconsistent  with  this  Agreement  into  compliance  with  the 
recommendations of the panel within the reasonable period of time established, or if the Party 
complained against expresses in writing that it will not implement the recommendations, or if 
no  measure  taken  to  comply  exists,  and  the  Parties  fail  to  reach  an  agreement  on 
compensation  within  20  days  after  entering  into  negotiations  for  compensation,  the 
complaining  Party  may  suspend  the  application  of  concessions  or  other  obligations  to  the 
Party complained against.   The complaining Party shall notify the Party complained against 
30 days before suspending concessions or other obligations.   The notification shall indicate 
the level and scope of the suspension of concessions or other obligations. 
  
2.  Compensation  and  suspension  of  concessions  or  other  obligations  are  temporary 
measures  available  in  the  event  that  the  recommendations  and  determinations  are  not 
implemented  within  the  reasonable  period  of  time.    However,  neither  compensation  nor 
suspension  of  concessions  or  other  obligations  is  preferred  to  full  implementation  of  a 
recommendation to bring a measure into conformity with this Agreement.    Compensation 
shall be consistent with this Agreement. 
 
3.  In considering concessions or other obligations to suspend: 
 
      (a)   the  complaining  Party  should  first  seek  to  suspend  concessions  or  other 
            obligations in the same sector or sectors that affected by the measure that the 
            panel  has  found  to  be  inconsistent  with  the  obligations derived  of  this 
            Agreement; and 
     
      (b)   if  the complaining Party  considers  that  it  is  not  practicable  or effective to 
            suspend concessions or other obligations in the same sector or sectors, it may 
            suspend concession or other obligations in other sectors. 
     
4.  The  level  of  suspension  of  concessions  or  other  obligations  shall  be  equivalent  to  the 
level of the nullification or impairment. 
 
5.  If the Party complained against considers that the level of suspension of concessions or 

                                    - 197 - 
 
 

other obligations is not equivalent to the nullification or impairment, it may request in writing 
to the original panel.   On the written request of the Party complained against, the original 
panel shall determine whether the level of concessions or other obligations to be suspended by 
the  complaining  Party  is  excessive  pursuant  to  paragraph  4.   If  the  panel  cannot  be 
established with its original panelists, the proceeding set out in Article 20.6 shall be applied. 
 
6.  The panel shall present its determination within 60 days after the date of receipt of the 
request,  or  if the panel  cannot  be  established  with  its  original  panelists,  from  the  date  on 
which the last panelist is appointed. 
 
7.  The  complaining  Party  may  not  suspend the application  of  concessions  or  other 
obligations before the issuance of the panel¡¯s determination pursuant to this Article. 
 
 
Article 20.16: Post Suspension 
 
1.  Without  prejudice  to  the  procedure  in  Article  20.15,  if  the  Party  complained against 
considers that it has eliminated the non-conformity that the panel has found, it may provide a 
written notice  to  the  complaining  Party  with  description of  how  non-conformity  has  been 
removed.   If the complaining Party disagrees, it may refer the matter to the original panel 
within  60  days  after  receipt  of  such  written  notice.  Otherwise,  the  complaining  Party  shall 
promptly stop the suspension of concessions or other obligations. 
 
2.  The panel shall issue its report within 60 days after the referral of the matter. 
 
3.  If  the  panel  determines  that  the  Party  complained against has  eliminated  the 
non-conformity, the complaining Party shall promptly stop the suspension of concessions or 
other obligations. 
        
 
Article 20.17: Private Rights  
 
Neither Party may provide for a right of action under its domestic law against the other Party 
on the ground that a measure of the other Party is inconsistent with this Agreement. 
                                                               


                                    - 198 - 
 
 

                                ANNEX 20-A 
                           RULES OF PROCEDURE 
 
  
                                 Application 
 
1.  The  following  rules  of  procedures are  established  pursuant  to Article 20.9 (Rules  of 
Procedure) and  shall  apply  to  dispute settlement  proceedings  under this Chapter  unless  the 
Parties otherwise agree. 
 
 
                                  Definitions 
 
2.   For the purposes of this Chapter and this Annex: 
 
adviser means a person retained by a Party to advise or assist that Party in connection with 
the panel proceeding; 
 
assistant means  a  person  who,  under  the  terms  of  appointment  of  a  panelist,  conducts 
research or provides support for the panelist; 
 
complaining  Party means  a  Party  that  requests  the  establishment  of  a  panel  under Article 
20.6 (Establishment of Panel); 
 
day means a calendar day 
 
deliver means to deliver on a carrier medium, by electronic transmission or in paper; 
 
document  includes  any  written  matter  submitted  in  the  course  of  the  panel proceeding, 
whether in paper or electronic form; 
 
panel means a panel established under Article 20.6 (Establishment of Panel); 
 
panelist means  a  member  of  the  panel established  under  Article 20.6  (Establishment  of 
Panel); 
 
Party complained against means the Party that receives a written notification indicating that 

                                    - 199 - 
 
 

the complaining Party has referred the matter to a dispute settlement panel in accordance with 
Article 20.6 (Establishment of Panel); 
 
3.  Any  reference  made  in  the Rules of  Procedure to  an  Article is  a reference  to  the 
appropriate Article in this Chapter. 
 
 
                            Logistical Administration 
                                       
4.  The Party complained against shall be in charge of the logistical administration of dispute 
settlement procedures, in particular the organization of hearings, unless the Parties otherwise 
agree. 
 
 
                                 Notifications 
                                       
5.     The Parties and the panel  shall  transmit  any request,  notice, written submission or 
other document by delivery against receipt, registered post, courier, facsimile transmission, 
telex, telegram or any other means of telecommunication that provides a record of the sending 
thereof. 
 
6.     A Party shall provide a copy of each of its all written submissions to the other Party 
and to each of the panelists during the course of the dispute settlement proceedings.   A copy 
of the document shall be also provided in electronic format. 
 
7.  All notifications shall be made and delivered to the Ministry of Commerce of China, or 
its  successor and  to the Ministry  of  Trade,  Industry  and  Energy  of  Korea,  or  its  successor 
respectively. 
 
8.  The  deadlines  are  counted  from  the  following  date  of  receipt  of  such submission or 
documents. 
 
9.  Minor  errors  of  a  clerical  nature  in  any  request,  notice,  written submission,  or  other 
document related to the panel proceeding may be corrected by delivery of a new document 
clearly indicating the changes.  
 
10.    If the last day for delivery of a document falls on a legal holiday of China or Korea, 

                                    - 200 - 
 
 

the document may be delivered on the next business day. 
 
 
                        Commencing the Panel Procedure 
 
11. Unless the Parties otherwise agree, they shall meet with the panel within 15 days of the 
date of the establishment of the panel in order to determine such matters that the Parties or the 
panel  deem  appropriate,  including the  remuneration  and  expenses  that  shall  be  paid  to  the 
panelists. 
 
 
                           First Written Submissions 
 
12.    The complaining Party shall deliver its first written submission no later than 20 days 
after  the last  panelist  is  appointed.  The  Party  complained  against  shall  deliver  its  first 
written submission no later than 20 days after the date of delivery of the complaining Party¡¯s 
first written submission, unless the panel otherwise decides. 
                                       
                                       
                              Operation of Panels 
                                       
13.  The chair of the panel shall preside at all of its meetings.  A panel may delegate to the 
chair authority to make administrative and procedural decisions. 
 
14.    Unless the Parties otherwise agree, the panel may conduct its activities by any means, 
including telephone, facsimile transmission or computer links. 
 
15.    Only  panelists  may  take  part  in  the  deliberations  of  the  panel,  but  the panel  may, 
after  consultation  with  the  Parties, permit its assistants,  interpreters,  or  translators  to  be 
present at its deliberations.  Any person present for such deliberations shall not disclose any 
information discussed during the deliberation to the Parties. 
 
16.    The drafting of the report shall remain the exclusive responsibility of the panel and 
must not be delegated. 
 
17.     Where  a  procedural  question  arises  that  is  not  covered  by the  provisions  of  this 
Agreement,  a  panel  may  adopt  an  appropriate  procedure  that  is compatible with the 

                                    - 201 - 
 
 

Agreement. 
 
 
                                  Hearings 
                                       
18.    The  chair of  the  panel shall  fix  the  date,  time,  and  venue  of  the  hearing  after 
consultation  with  the  Parties and  the other panelists.   The  chair shall  notify  the  Parties  in 
writing of those determined date, time, and venue of the hearing.  Unless one of the Parties 
disagrees, the panel may decide not to convene a hearing. 
 
19.    Unless the Parties otherwise agree, the hearings shall be held in the territory of the 
Party complained against. 
 
20.  The panel may convene additional hearings if the Parties so agree. 
 
21.    All panelists shall be present during the entirety of any hearing.  
 
22.    The following persons may attend the hearing, irrespective of whether the hearing is 
closed to the public or not: 
 
      (a)  representatives of the Parties; 
       
      (b)  advisers to the Parties; 
       
      (c)  administrative staff, interpreters and translators; and 
       
      (d)   panelists¡¯ assistants  
       
Only the representatives and advisers of the Parties may address to the panel. 
 
23.     The panel may direct questions to either Party at any time during a hearing. 
 
24.  The panel shall arrange for a transcript of each hearing to be prepared and delivered as 
soon as possible to the Parties. 
 
 
                       Supplementary Written Submissions 

                                    - 202 - 
 
 

 
25.    Each Party may deliver a supplementary written submission concerning any matter 
that arises during the hearing within 20 days after the date of the hearing. 
 
 
                                Confidentiality 
 
26.    The panel¡¯s hearings and the documents  submitted to  it shall  be kept confidential.  
The information submitted by the other Party to the panel which that Party has designated as 
confidential shall be treated as confidential.   Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude a Party 
to a dispute from disclosing statements of its own positions to the public to the extent that, 
when making reference to information submitted by the other Party, it does not disclose any 
information designated by the other Party as confidential.  
                                       
                                       
                               Ex Parte Contacts 
                                       
27.    The panel shall not meet or contact a Party in the absence of the other Party.  No 
Party may contact any panelist in relation to the dispute in the absence of the other Party or 
the other panelists. 
 
28.    No panelist may discuss any aspect of the subject matter of the proceedings with a 
Party or the Parties in the absence of the other panelists. 
 
 
                             Computation of Time 
 
29. Where anything under this Agreement or this Annex is to be done, or the panel requires 
anything to be done, within a number of days after or before a specified date or event, the 
specified  date  or  the  date  on  which  the  specified  event  occurs  shall  not  be  included  in 
calculating that number of days. 
 
30.    Where, by reason of the application of paragraph 10 of this Annex, a Party receives a 
document on a date other than the date on which this document is received by the other Party, 
any period of time that is calculated on the basis of the date of receipt of that document shall 
be calculated from the last date of receipt of that document. 
 

                                    - 203 - 
 
 

 
                              Working Languages 
 
31. Unless the Parties otherwise agree, the working language for the dispute settlement 
proceedings shall be English.                    


                                    - 204 - 
 
 

                                ANNEX 20-B 
           CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PANELISTS AND MEDIATORS             
                                       
                                       
                                  Definitions 
 
1.      For the purposes of this Annex: 
  
assistant means  a  person  who,  under  the  terms  of  appointment  of  a  member  of the  panel, 
conducts research or provides support for the member; 
 
mediator means  a  person who  conducts  a  mediation  procedure  in  accordance  with  Article 
20.5 (Good Offices, Conciliation or Mediation); 
 
panelist means a member of a panel established under Article 20.6 (Establishment of Panel); 
 
proceeding, unless otherwise specified, means a panel proceeding under this Chapter; and 
 
staff, in  respect  of member, means  persons under the direction and control  of the panelist, 
other than assistants. 
 
                                       
                          Responsibilities to the Process 
 
2.  Every  panelist  shall  avoid  impropriety  and  the  appearance  of  impropriety,  shall  be 
independent  and  impartial,  shall  avoid  direct  and  indirect  conflicts  of  interests  and  shall 
observe  high  standards  of  conduct  so  that  the  integrity  and  impartiality  of  the  dispute 
settlement mechanism is preserved.  
 
 
                             Disclosure Obligations 
 
3.  A panelist shall disclose any interest, relationship or matter that is likely to affect his or 
her independence or impartiality or that might reasonably create an appearance of impropriety 
or bias in the proceeding by informing the Joint Commission, in writing, for consideration by 
the Parties. 
 

                                    - 205 - 
 
 

4.  A  panelist  shall  only  communicate  matters  concerning  actual  or  potential  violations  of 
this Annex to the Joint Commission for consideration by the Parties. 
 
 
                               Duties of Panelists 
 
5.  Upon selection, a panelist shall perform his or her duties thoroughly and expeditiously 
throughout the course of the proceeding with fairness and diligence. 
                                       
6.   A panelist shall consider only those issues raised in the proceeding and necessary for a 
ruling and shall not delegate this duty to any other person. 
 
7.   A panelist shall take all appropriate steps to ensure that his or her assistant and staff are 
aware of, and comply with this Annex. 
 
8.   A panelist shall not engage in ex parte contacts concerning the proceeding. 
 
 
                    Independence and Impartiality of Panelists 
 
9.   A  panelist must be  independent  and  impartial and  avoid  creating  an  appearance  of 
impropriety or bias. 
 
10.  A panelist shall not, directly or indirectly, incur any obligation or accept any benefit that 
would in any way interfere, or appear to interfere, with the proper performance of his or her 
duties. 
 
11.  A  panelist  shall  not  use  his  or  her  position  on  the  panel  to  advance  any  personal  or 
private interests.  A panelist shall avoid actions that may create the impression that others are 
in a special position to influence him or her. 
 
 
                                Confidentiality 
 
12.    A  panelist  shall not at  any  time  disclose  or  use  any  non-public information 
concerning  a  proceeding  or  acquired  during  a  proceeding  except  for the purposes  of that 
proceeding and shall not, in any case, disclose or use any such information to gain personal 

                                    - 206 - 
 
 

advantage or advantage for others or to adversely affect the interest of others. 
 
13.    A panelist shall not disclose a panel ruling or parts thereof prior to its publication in 
accordance with this Agreement. 
 
14.    A panelist shall not at any time disclose the deliberations of a panel or any panelist¡¯s 
view. 
 
 
                                  Mediators 
 
15.     The  provisions  described in  the  Annex 20-B shall  apply, mutatis  mutandis,  to 
mediators. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                    - 207 - 
 
 

                                CHAPTER 21 
                                EXCEPTIONS 
 
 
Article 21.1: General Exceptions 
 
1.  For the purposes of Chapters 2 (National Treatment and Market Access for Goods) 
through 7 (Trade Remedies), Article XX of GATT 1994 and its interpretive notes are 
incorporated into and made part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
2.  For the purposes of Chapters 8 (Trade in Services), 9 (Financial Services), 10 
(Telecommunications), and 13 (Electronic Commerce)66, Article XIV of GATS (including its 
footnotes) is incorporated into and made part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
 
Article 21.2: Essential Security 
 
For the purposes of this Agreement, Article XXI of GATT 1994 and Article XIV bis of 
GATS are incorporated into and made part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis. 
 
 
Article 21.3: Taxation 
 
1.  For purposes of this Article: 
 
       (a)   tax convention means a convention for the avoidance of double taxation or 
             other international taxation agreement or arrangement to which both Parties 
             are party; and 
        
       (b)  taxation measures do not include: 
        
             (i)  a customs duty defined in Article 1.6 (Definitions); or 
             
             (ii)   the measures listed in subparagraphs (b) through (e) of the definition 
                    of customs duty set out in Article 1.6 (Definitions). 

                                                 
66 Article 21.1 is without prejudice to whether digital products should be classified as goods or services. 

                                    - 208 - 
 
 

 
2.  Except as set out in this Article, nothing in this Agreement shall apply to taxation 
measures. 
 
3.     (a)  Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the rights and obligations of the Parties 
       under any tax convention to which both Parties are party.   In the event of any 
       inconsistency relating to a taxation measure between this Agreement and any such 
       convention, that convention shall prevail to the extent of the inconsistency.  
 
       (b)  In the case of a tax convention between the Parties, the competent authorities 
       under that convention shall have sole responsibility for determining whether any 
       inconsistency exists between this Agreement and that convention. 
 
4.     Notwithstanding paragraph 3, this Agreement shall only grant rights or impose 
       obligations with respect to taxation measures where corresponding rights or 
       obligations are also granted or imposed under Article III of GATT 1994. 
 
5.     (a)  Article 12.12 (Settlement of Investment Disputes between a Party and an 
       Investor of the Other Party) shall apply to a taxation measure alleged to be an 
       expropriation. 
 
       (b) Articles 12.9 (Expropriation and Compensation) shall apply to taxation measures.  
       However, no investor may invoke Article 12.9 (Expropriation and Compensation) as 
       the basis of a claim where it has been determined in accordance with this paragraph 
       that the measure is not an expropriation.  An investor that seeks to invoke Article 
       12.9 (Expropriation and Compensation) with respect to a taxation measure must first 
       refer to the competent authorities, at the time of the submission of written request for 
       consultation to the disputing Party under paragraph 2 of Article 12.12 (Settlement of 
       Investment Disputes between a Party and an Investor of the Other Party), the issue of 
       whether that taxation measure involves an expropriation.   If the competent 
       authorities do not agree to consider the issue or, having agreed to consider it, fail to 
       agree that the measure is not an expropriation within a period of six months from the 
       date on which the written request for consultation is submitted to the disputing Party 
       under paragraph 2 of Article 12.12 (Settlement of Investment Disputes between a 
       Party and an Investor of the Other Party), the investor may submit its claim to 
       arbitration under Article 12.12.3 (Settlement of Investment Disputes between a Party 
       and an Investor of the Other Party). 

                                    - 209 - 
 
 

        
6.  For the purposes of this Article, competent authorities means:  
 
       (a)   for China, the Ministry of Finance and State Administration of Taxation; and 
        
       (b)   for Korea, the Deputy Minister for Tax and Customs, Ministry of Strategy 
             and Finance. 
 
 
Article 21.4: Disclosure of Information 
 
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to require a Party to furnish or allow access to 
confidential information, the disclosure of which would impede law enforcement, or 
otherwise be contrary to the public interest, or which would prejudice the legitimate 
commercial interests of particular enterprises, public or private. 
 
 
Article 21.5: Measures to Safeguard the Balance of Payments 
 
Where the Party is in serious balance of payments and external financial difficulties or threat 
thereof, it may, in accordance with the WTO Agreement and consistent with the Articles of 
Agreement of the International Monetary Fund, adopt measures deemed necessary. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                    - 210 - 
 
 


                                CHAPTER 22 
                             FINAL PROVISIONS 
                                       
                                       
Article 22.1: Annexes, Appendices and Footnotes 
 
The Annexes, appendices and footnotes to this Agreement shall constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement. 
 
 
Article 22.2: Amendments 
 
1.  The Parties shall amend Chapters relating to Trade in Services and Investment and their 
corresponding annexes through the subsequent negotiations commencing from the date of 
entry into force of this Agreement (hereinafter referred to as ¡°subsequent negotiations¡±) in 
accordance with the general principles and negotiation guidelines specified in the Annex 
22-A. 
 
2.  The results of the subsequent negotiations shall be incorporated into and made an integral 
part of this Agreement and substitute the corresponding Chapters of this Agreement.  The 
entry into force of the newly amended chapters shall be subject to the procedures contained in 
the Article 22.4. 
     
3.  Further to the aforementioned amendment, the Parties may agree to amend this 
Agreement.  When so agreed and entered into force according to Article 22.4, such 
amendments shall constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
 
Article 22.3: Amendment of the WTO Agreement 
 
If any provision of the WTO Agreement that the Parties have incorporated into this 
Agreement is amended, the Parties shall consult on whether to amend this Agreement 
accordingly. 
 
 
Article 22.4: Entry into Force and Termination 
 

                                    - 211 - 
 
 

1.  The entry into force of this Agreement is subject to the completion of necessary domestic 
legal procedures by each Party. 
 
2.  This Agreement shall enter into force 60 days after the date the Parties exchange written 
notifications through diplomatic channels that such procedures have been completed or after 
such other period as the Parties may agree and confirm by written notifications. 
 
3.  Either Party may terminate this Agreement by written notification to the other Party 
through diplomatic channels.  This Agreement shall expire 180 days after the date on which 
such notification is sent. 
 
 
Article 22.5: Accession 
Any country or customs territory may accede to this Agreement subject to such terms and 
conditions as may be agreed between the country or customs territory and the Parties and 
following approval in accordance with the applicable legal requirements and procedures of 
each Party and acceding country or customs territory. 
 
 
Article 22.6: Authentic Text 
     
This Agreement shall be done in Chinese, Korean, and English.  The three texts are equally 
valid and authentic.  In case of any divergence, the English text shall prevail.        


                                    - 212 - 
 
 

                                ANNEX 22-A 
               GUIDELINES FOR SUBSEQUENT NEGOTIATION 
  
  
A.     General Principles 
     
    1. The Parties aim at achieving high-level liberalization for trade in services and 
       investment in the subsequent negotiation. 
 
    2. The subsequent negotiations will cover, among others, Chapters 8 (Trade in Services), 
       9 (Financial Services) and 12 (Investment) including their respective Annexes, and 
       the related provisions concerning rules in other Chapters. 
         
    3. The subsequent negotiations will be conducted based on a negative list approach 
       covering pre-establishment phase of investment and trade in services in mode 3. 
         
    4. The Parties agreed to generate combined reservation lists associated with the Chapter 
       8 (Cross-Border Trade in Services), Chapter 9 (Financial Services), and Chapter 12 
       (Investment) based on a negative list approach.   The newly-generated combined 
       reservation lists such as Annex I (List of Existing Non-Conforming Measures), Annex 
       II (List of the Specific Sectors, Subsectors, or Activities for Which a Party May 
       Maintain Existing, or Adopt New or More Restrictive Measures that Do not Conform 
       with Obligations under the Relevant Chapters), and Annex III (Financial Services), 
       shall be attached to this Agreement and constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
         
    5. The Parties shall ensure that the level of liberalization commitments of a specific 
       sector attained in this Agreement will not be decreased at the subsequent negotiations. 
         
    6. In the subsequent negotiations, the Parties may revisit any Articles in the relevant 
       Chapters.67 
         
    7. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as preventing a Party from making new 
       textual proposals in the subsequent negotiations.  
 

                                                 
67 For greater certainty, the subsequent negotiations will be conducted based on the Parties¡¯ respective textual proposals, not 
on the Articles in this Agreement. 

                                    - 213 - 
 
 

B.     Timeframes 
         
    8. The Parties shall commence the subsequent negotiations as soon as possible, but not 
       later than two years following the date of entry into force of this Agreement.  
        
    9. The Parties shall endeavor to conclude the subsequent negotiations within two years 
       from the date of the starting of the negotiations. 
           
C.     Guidelines for Negotiations for Trade in Services 
     
    10. The Chapter on Cross-Border Trade in Services which will be established through 
       subsequent negotiations applies to trade in services in mode 1 and 2. 
         
    11. The Parties shall include, among others, the provision concerning Future MFN 
       (Most-Favored Nation Treatment) in the result of the subsequent negotiations for the 
       Chapter on Cross-Border Trade in Services. 
        
    12. The Parties shall include, among others, the provisions concerning Future MFN 
       (Most-Favored Nation Treatment), Transfer of Information and New Financial 
       Services in the result of the subsequent negotiations for the Chapter on Financial 
       Services. 
        
    13. The list of existing non-conforming measures and the list of the specific sectors, 
       subsectors, or activities for which a Party may maintain existing, or adopt new or 
       more restrictive measures that do not conform with the obligations under the Chapter 
       on Financial Services shall be attached to as Annex III to this Agreement.  
         
D.     Guidelines for Negotiations for Investment  
         
    14. The Parties shall revisit all the Articles in Chapter 12 (Investment) with a view to 
       including pre-establishment phase of the investment covering all kinds of investment 
       including supply of services through commercial presence.  
        
    15. The negotiation shall include the Articles addressing Definition, Scope and Coverage, 
       National Treatment, Most-Favored- Nation Treatment, Minimum Standard of 
       Treatment, Expropriation, Transfer, Performance Requirements, Senior Management 

                                    - 214 - 
 
 

         and Boards of Directors, Non-Confirming Measures, Investor-State Dispute 
         Settlement, and other provisions.  
           

     16. The Parties shall include, in the result of the subsequent negotiations, an Article on 

         Performance Requirement with a view to incorporating high level commitment for both 
         pre-establishment and post-establishment phase of the investment. 
           
     17. The Parties shall negotiate on issues such as relevant consideration for, and exceptions to 
         the indirect expropriation in the subsequent negotiation. 
 
E.      Guidelines for Negotiations for related provisions concerning rules 
         
     18. The Parties shall negotiate on the related provisions concerning rules in other Chapters at the 
         subsequent negotiations. 
           
F.      Termination and Modification of the Annex and Relevant Article 
           
     19. This Annex and the paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 22.2 (Amendments) shall be 
         terminated at the time when the result of the subsequent negotiations enters into 
         force. 
              
     20. The paragraph 3 of Article 22.2 (Amendments) shall, at the time when the result of 
         the subsequent negotiations enters into force, be modified as follows  
           
          ¡°The Parties may agree to amend this Agreement.  When so agreed and entered into force 
          according  to  Article  22.4 (Entry into  Force  and  Termination),  such  amendment  shall 
          constitute an integral part of this Agreement.¡±


                                             - 215 - 
 
 


        IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  undersigned,  being  duly authorized by  their  respective 
        Governments, have signed this Agreement. 
 
DONE at Seoul, this First day of June, 2015, in duplicate, each Party shall keep one copy in 
the Chinese, Korean and English languages. 